IT’S TUESDAY AND we have the Champions League returning but with a very limited America flavor, Jesse Marsch getting ready to land on his feet, MLS preseason rolls on, the U-17s are prepping for the big games ahead, and all sorts of other news

As we do in the morning here is the news with some thoughts

Jesse Marsch will apparently not be unemployed for very long. Less than two weeks after being sacked at Leeds United on February 6, the American manager is nearing a move to take over Southampton. The announcement is expected by the middle of this week.

Southampton currently sits in the bottom of the Premier League and have recently fired manager Nathan Jones who was only in the job since November. Jones was let go after Saturday’s 2-1 loss to Wolves at home. The club has just 15 points from 22 games and are four points deep in the relegation zone. Coincidentally, the club Southampton likely need to catch in order to avoid relegation is Leeds United.

Here are some thoughts:

First, Marsch is dealing with lower expectations this time around – which is good for him. He’s not following legends like he did at Leipzig or Leeds (or even the popular one he replaced in New York). He is walking into an environment that is starving for change. That is a good thing.

Second, Marsch is an emotional coach and that is also a good thing. Relegation battles are often about the mental side of the game even more than the tactical. Again, that is good for Marsch.

Third, I also like how Marsch will not have an American on this roster and he will be free from the distraction of having a U.S. international with whom he is connected. Instead, he can just manage players looking to him for the first time for direction.

Fourth, if Southampton goes down, will Marsch be the guy for the Championship? That seems fair and Marsch’s frantic “Red Bull” style might be very useful in that league where teams are looking to force turnovers and cause chaos. In the Championship, there is far less skill among opponents to break through the “Red Bull” system.

Finally, I am curious to see if Marsch is flexible without Southampton. Does he have a plan B? Can he give a different look or will he be rigid?

Then, there is also the national team. U.S. fans were speculating heavily about Marsch becoming the next U.S. manager. But he’s still in the Premier League and he has a job that will carry him at least into the summer at that level. If he is in the Championship, maybe he still is open to being a USMNT candidate but if he is in the Premier League, that becomes more of a long shot.

The United States U-17 national team defeated Trinidad & Tobago 3-1 on Monday night in Guatemala to move to six points from its first two games at the CONCACAF U-17 Championships. The top four teams from this tournament advance to the FIFA U-17 World Cup later this year.

The first two games were completely one-sided. The U.S. team defeated Barbados 5-0 to open the tournament and then backed up on Monday night. But the win over Trinidad & Tobago ensured that the U.S. team has a spot in the knockouts. It will now look to win Group F with a win or draw against Canada on Wednesday night.

Against Trinidad & Tobago, the U.S. team opened the scoring in the 11th minute when Auston FC forward Micah Burton tapped in a Taha Habroune cross after a failed Trinidad & Tobago clearance.

Then in the 14th minute, the LA Galaxy's Paulo Rudisill finished a Sawyer Jura pass from close range for a 2-0 lead.

Right place, right time for Rudisill ???????? » @foxsoccerpic.twitter.com/s04DCBKV45

Then in the 24th minute, right back Aiden Harangi played Rudisill down the right side. The Galaxy winger crossed to Habroune for a 3-0 lead.

Calm and composed. Habroune’s goal makes it 3-0???? » @foxsoccerpic.twitter.com/axYOEHLU3p

In the 78th minute, Trinidad & Tobago pulled one back on a great goal from Derrel Garcia but it was too late.

Overall, the level of competition has made it impossible to draw any real conclusions. The first two games have been about getting results and preserving energy for the Canada game and then in the knockouts. So far, so good.

The only real takeaway you can say is that the U.S. team has brought a lot of quality but has been very wasteful with its chances. The team has blown too many terrific opportunities. Also, they let Trinidad & Tobago gather too much momentum in the second half.

Looking ahead, if the U.S. team wins Group F, it will take on the Dominican Republic in the Round of 16. That will then set up a quarterfinal on February 22 for the right to go to the World Cup. That will be between the Group G runner-up and the third-place finisher or Group E. That could be the winner of hosts Guatemala vs. Jamaica/Costa Rica. That could be tricky.

Americans on the move

There were three Americans on the move in Europe recently to lower-key transfers.

Former U.S. U-20 fullback/midfielder Ian Hoffmann, 21, was with the Houston Dynamo last season before getting loaned to Orange County SC. This week he signed for Moss FK in Norway’s second tier 1.Division.

Jack De Vries, 20, has gone on loan from Venezia to KTP in Finland. De Vries made a permanent move from Philadelphia to Venezia last year but has struggled for first-team minutes. His loan to KTP is through June but there is an option to extend the loan as the two clubs have a cooperation agreement.

Miami-born winger Agustino Anello, 20, has gone on loan from Lommel in Belgium's second tier to Hajduk Split where he will be the second American on the club after U.S. U-20 midfielder Rokas Pukstas. Hajduk has an option to buy on the loan.

Anello had eight goals in 16 games for Lommel this season.

- Agustino Anello becomes the 2nd American at Hajduk Split- Anello, 20, was born in Miami, lived there until he was 10- Also holds Italian & Argentine passports- He joins Hajduk on loan from Lommel (2nd tier in Belgium)- Hajduk holds an option to buy- plays left wing https://t.co/1kRYztc1qX

The Champions League knockouts open on Tuesday but no Americans are expected to take part. AC Milan hosts Tottenham but Sergino Dest is both injured and out of favor with Milan.

With Christian Pulisic injured, Owen Otasowie MIA, John Brooks gone from Benfica, and Timothy Chandler a bench option at Eintracht Frankfurt, the only American likely to play this round in the knockouts is Gio Reyna.

Several Americans are expected to play in the Championship on Tuesday.

Auston Trusty is coming off two very good games in row (the last with Anthony Hudson watching) and should start for Birmingham City against Cardiff City. Trusty, 24, has played every minute this season for Birmingham City and could be a surprise U.S. call-up next month.

Josh Sargent and Norwich host Hull City today and the St. Louis attacker should start for David Wagner’s team.

In Liga MX, Tigres hosts FC Juarez tonight with Ventura Alvarado and Alan Sonora likely to make the bench for Juarez. The recently capped Sonora is looking to make his Liga MX debut after playing his entire career in Argentina.
