THE UNITED STATES national team played Uruguay to a 0-0 draw at Children’s Mercy Park in Kansas City on Sunday in its final test against a World Cup-caliber opponent before the September window. The result was certainly not bad, but it once again revealed that the U.S. team is still very much a work in progress.

The most important perspective to have when judging this game is that Uruguay entered the game having won its last five games by a combined score of 11-1. In other words, Uruguay is playing extremely well right now on both sides of the ball. They boast a powerful attack as well as a defense that can keep opponents off the board.

“Give this team credit, Uruguay is a team that doesn't give up many goals,” U.S. head coach Gregg Berhalter said. “They have top of the line defenders and they compete like crazy.”

That streak was snapped by a U.S. team that got a little lucky at the end, but still played well for stretches. Overall, the first two games have indeed been productive as it shows the U.S. team does have talent and quality, but still needs to be more ruthless and aggressive.

Berhalter announced his starting lineup the day before to the media. The changes from the 3-0 win over Morocco saw Sean Johnson get the nod in goal over Matt Turner. Joe Scally and DeAndre Yedlin replaced Reggie Cannon and Antonee Robinson. Weston McKennie replaced Brenden Aaronson although Berhalter noted that McKennie was capped at 45 minutes as he is still rehabbing his foot injury. The front line of Christian Pulisic, Tim Weah, and Jesus Ferreira remained unchanged.

Uruguay did well the first 10-15 minutes and it’s best chance of the half came in the 10th minute when DeAndre Yedlin was able to clear a shot from Diego Godín off the line.

.@YEDLINNY CLEARS FROM THE LINE ???? pic.twitter.com/4rRm5B3HgP

U.S. team mostly controlled the final 30 minutes of the half, despite not scoring. The U.S. had its chances. Weston McKennie seemed to bring some life into the attack in the 14th minute when he sent a bicycle kick over the goal. From then, the U.S. had more chances. Jesus Ferreira had his shot late in the 19th minute saved by Fernando Muslera. Minutes later, Ferreira was not able to drive a header on goal in the 21st.

Sean Johnson had strong performance in this game and two of his three saves were difficult. The first of which was in the 23rd minute when Johnson denied Manuel Ugarte from close range.

In the second half, as is typical with friendlies, the game became disjointed due to both teams making a wave of substitutions. Pulisic hit a shot wide in the 53rd. Minutes later, Uruguay squandered a chance when they hit the U.S. team on a counterattack after a turnover in the midfield. Fernando Gorriarán’s shot ended up going over the bar from close range.

In the 63rd minute, Mathías Olivera had his shot saved by Johnson for the NYCFC goalkeeper’s second impressive save of the afternoon.

In the 81st, the U.S. team thought it had earned a penalty and if VAR existed, perhaps it would have been called. On the play, Pulisic played Robinson into the box. The speedy Fulham left back sent in a cross but it appeared to hit a sliding Sebastián Coates in the had but a penalty was not awarded.

In a game that was filled with misses, the game ended in stoppage time just after the biggest miss from this game’s biggest player. Edinson Cavani had an open net off a transition play but shanked it wide right.

A 0-0 draw that didn't lack for excitement.#USAvURU x @Allstate pic.twitter.com/Gw5PsmLlNy

Here are some thoughts on the game

Through two games, the U.S. team has looked solid in goal with good efforts from Sean Johnson and Matt Turner. Central defense has certainly conceded some chances it shouldn’t have (Erik Palmer-Brown struggled against Uruguay) but for the most part, it’s been more positive than negative.

Central midfield and the wings have also been more positive than negative for the first two games.

The U.S. team should be concerned right now with both fullback positions and the center forward position. Both of these positions have been overall weak in the first two games.

Up top, Jesus Ferreira had chances but hasn’t been able to burry them. Instead, his shots have been saved. The 19th minute shot was such an example as Muslera was able to make a big stop.

Aside from being handed the ball to take a penalty, Haji Wright hasn’t been able prove he’s the answer. Against Uruguay, Wright had just four touches over 29 minutes. Ferreira, for his limitations, has at least been able to get involved and work with the wingers. But the forwards need to score goals.

Jesús keeps knocking ?#USAvURU x @Allstate pic.twitter.com/8dL7GnqTON

“It was more the finishing attacks phase that we struggled in,” Berhalter said. “We got the ball into really good positions and then just didn't take advantage of it…. Overall for the strikers, it's a difficult game against big, aggressive centerbacks. Jesus had another really good chance. There were moments. We came up a little bit short, but we'll keep working with these guys.”

“We want to get them chances,” he added. “We want to see how they're finishing chances. we want to see how they're competing against international players. That's important. I still don't think there's enough of a sample size for Haji but we'll continue to work with him. We have two Nations League games, and we'll see if Jesus and Haji can hit the back of the net in those.”

Fullbacks are a concern. Yes, Sergino Dest is out with an injury but the problems with the fullbacks shouldn’t be happening even with the current players. Yedlin made a big defensive play clearing a ball off the line and he also created a good chance but overall, among each of the four fullbacks over both games, the defense hasn’t been there. It has put a lot of stress on the centerbacks.

In this game, Joe Scally went 90 minutes (the first 62 minutes at left back and the final 28 minutes at right back) and had a tough stretch early. To start the game, Uruguay had a field day attacking down Scally’s side – where there were acres of space.

Berhalter, however, painted a positive picture on the young fullback from Long Island.

“For Joe Scally, the way he managed the game and hung in there, was battling, was cramping, going from left to right back - I was really proud of that effort,” Berhalter said.

“Uruguay didn't touch the ball in the first three minutes,” Berhalter added. “Then in minutes three through seven, it was just an adjustment. Joe [Scally] was getting too tight to the centerbacks. They were playing with two forwards and the forwards are inside of our centerbacks - he doesn't need to be that tight. He can start opening up and reading those diagonal switches and get much tighter pressure on their wingback. Once we made that adjustment, it helped.”

that's cleeeeeaaaannn, @jjscally_10 pic.twitter.com/eA3GjPJDAf

On a more positive note, Antonee Robinson was improved after a tough first half against Morocco on Thursday night. DeAndre Yedlin created a chance and had a goal-line clearance as he remains in a very tight battle with Reggie Cannon as the backup rightback.

But overall, the fullbacks haven’t been a position of strength in these games.

The U.S. team lost its spark in the second half – which was expected with the wave of substitutions. But overall, there was plenty to like about the return of the Adams, Musah, and McKennie trio that was unable to go in March due to McKennie’s injury.

In this game, the trio really helped the U.S. enjoy stretches where they controlled the game.

“Tyler Adams, for me, had an extra gear, an extra spark, was all over the place, and really helped us on both sides of the ball,” Berhalter said. “Weston was able to compete for 45 minutes after not having started a game for five months. Yunus is a guy that just blows me away with what he can do at his age. He's got a crazy amount of talent. We need to work with Yunus on the final product - the final pass, the finishing. Because he has a huge ceiling.”

It is going to be interesting to see the dynamics of how the midfield evolves over the remainder of this camp and into the fall. Brenden Aaronson came into the game in the second half an looks as if he could be more lethal in producing goals and assists right now. If that happens, how would an Adams, Aaronson, McKennie midfield look?

There is also the return of Gio Reyna and whether Berhalter might want to try him in a midfield role?

But right now, the midfield looks sharp and that is actually surprising when you consider that Adams and Musah didn’t really have strong club seasons. For both, playing time was irregular but especially for Musah, his club career is in its early stages. He doesn’t yet have a set position although he has been playing his preferred central role more often. Adams, meanwhile, doesn’t have the rhythm he could have if he still had a starting job at Leipzig. Meanwhile, McKennie made his first start in five months due to injury.

If this group can play well despite not having rhythm of consistent club minutes, imagine what it would be like if they are all in rhythm and form.

The Nations League games against Grenada and El Salvador are still useful opportunities to give the team repetitions and develop chemistry. Drawing conclusions from the results and specific performances could be misleading. It’s not the level of competition that is comparable to the World Cup.

Berhalter indicated after the game that the September window will feature two games against World Cup opponents, but what are the positive opportunities that the Nations League represents?

It’s a good chance to look at depth and how the team could hypothetically deal with injuries to key players. How would Kellyn Acosta fit in should he have to play the No. 6 in place of Adams? Or what could other central defense combinations look like even if they might not get tested?

Grenada might be more experimental, but El Salvador is good enough where it might be useful to test a combined lineup that mixes first-team players and backups. That could at least give the players more familiarity to a situation that could arise if there is a wave of injuries in Qatar.

After the game, Berhalter revealed that Sean Johnson had been asking for an opportunity against a quality opponent. Johnson has been the loyal third string keeper behind Matt Turner and Zack Steffen. Sometimes he’s also been behind Ethan Horvath. He didn’t play in World Cup qualifying despite being a regular on the roster. Typically, his only performances have come in low-profile friendlies or Gold Cup games against lower CONCACAF teams.

Berhalter, perhaps wanting to award his loyalty and give him an honest opportunity, gave him the start in team’s most high-profile friendly in years. Johnson delivered with a clean sheet performance that featured three solid saves.

SEAN JOHNSON. STOPPING SHOTS ANY WAY HE CAN. pic.twitter.com/Xl4r9kC4BY

“Sean Johnson has been asking for a challenging game and he got it, and he responded with a very strong performance,” Berhalter said.

What does this mean?

For one, Matt Turner is doing his part to be the No. 1 goalkeeper heading into the World Cup despite the outlook that he’s going to be the backup at Arsenal starting this summer. But the entire pecking order is tough to determine. Steffen doesn’t play at Manchester City and he has struggled when he does. Horvath is a backup at Nottingham Forest. Gaga Slonina isn’t ready yet.

Turner’s backup status at Arsenal is a bit different as he has been playing for New England the first half of this year. At Arsenal, he will probably start some preseason games and some early-season cup games. It’s far different than Horvath and Steffen who have been sitting on the bench for most of the past few seasons.

But Johnson becomes the best bet to make the team if Berhalter wants to have at least one goalkeeper who is playing regularly for his club. He helped his case against Uruguay, probably to the detriment of Ethan Horvath.

Sean Johnson: He asked for a quality game to showcase himself and he got one. He answered the call and put out a great outing with big saves in the 23rd and 63rd minutes. He was very important in keeping the clean sheet. Rating: 7.5

Joe Scally: The Gladbach defender played both left and right back. He struggled with spacing early but then settled into the game and battled. He didn’t make a big impact getting forward. Rating: 5.0

Walker Zimmerman: The Nashville SC defender played a big role in keeping a clean sheet and was the best American defender on the day. He was credited with four clearances. He won 5/6 ground duels. He also had three blocks, including a big one against Diego Rossi from close range late in the game. He was 5/7 with his long balls, which also resulted in a pair of decent scoring chances for the U.S. team. His only blemish was getting beaten in the 41st minute, but other than that, it was a good day at the office Rating: 7.5

Aaron Long: The Red Bulls captain played the first half and was forced to scramble in emergency defending early as Uruguay was often awarded too much space. He only played the first half and was decent, except for a poor 42nd minute backpass to Sean Johnson which the U.S. team only narrowly escaped without conceding a goal. Rating: 6.0

DeAndre Yedlin: The Inter Miami right back was useful early as he cleared a shot off the line in the 10th minute. Offensively, he was bright early connecting with Ferreira for a chance. But he faded after his bright start and struggled to get forward effectively. Rating: 5.5

Tyler Adams: The U.S. team’s captain battled hard, won duels, and helped in possession. He even made some nice runs that were unrecognized. Defensively, he won duels and tracked back late when Uruguay was pressing forward for a goal. Rating: 7.0

Yunus Musah: Overall, a good performance from the Valencia midfielder who showcased athleticism and ball control that is tough to stop. Once the final product is there, he’ll be a handful. But overall, he was useful against a tough opponent. Rating: 7.0

Weston McKennie: The Juventus midfielder made his first start in nearly four months. His attempted bicycle that went over the bar seemed to be the starting point for the U.S. team’s attack. Overall, he wasn’t as involved as the other midfielders but it was important to the U.S. team having him back. Rating: 6.0

Christian Pulisic: Had a nice interception that sprung him free on the wing in the 12th minute – his cross to Weah wasn’t dangerous. Unlike Wednesday’s win over Morocco, Pulisic was not able to get in isolated 1v1s with defenders or use his dribble effectively. His one shot went well wide Rating: 6.0

Jesus Ferreira: The Colombian-born forward did a lot of small things right and was helpful in the buildup to chances but he had a chance early that he needs to bury to be a lethal finisher. That still is his main job even if he’s active otherwise Rating: 5.5

Tim Weah: The Lille winger struggled to make an impact against Uruguay only managing one weak header for a shot. He tried to hit a low, hard cross to Ferreira that was just a bit too far out of reach. Rating: 5.5

Paul Arriola: Was a bit more active in this game despite Uruguay picking it up in the second half. He drew two fouls for free kicks, fought hard in his duels. Rating: 6.0

Erik Palmer-Brown: tough moment at the end when he lost Cavani, who inexplicably missed. Earlier he was beaten for a chance that Gorriaran missed high. His passing was okay at 24/28. Rating: 4.5

Brenden Aaronson: Was lively off the bench in replacing McKennie. He won duel after duel to make Uruguay’s life difficult. Rating: 6.5

Haji Wright: Wright did not make an impact in this game and only had four touches with one completed pass over 29 minutes. Part of that is on his teammates not getting him service but it’s also partly on him. Rating: 4.5

Antonee Robinson: The Fulham left back was an upgrade after coming into the game in the 62nd minute. He got forward effectively and also defended well. It was an improved performance than his game against Morocco. He arguably should have earned a penalty in the 82nd minute after he effectively got into the box and hit a cross that appeared to be a handball. Rating: 6.5

Luca de la Torre: Came into the game in the 85th but didn’t do enough to earn a rating. Rating: NR
