HAPPY WEDNESDAY TO all the MLS readers, it is a busy day for American soccer. WE have the Champions League, we have a full slate of MLS games, we have a USMNT roster coming out, and then we have U.S. youth national teams.

On top of all that, there is always a lot of news to cover.

There were a few big points to takeaway from MLS on Saturday, and we’ll have a lot more to say on Thursday after yet another big slate. But, here is kind of a brief look-back and lookahead.

New York Red Bull disaster: without a doubt the worst performance of the weekend came from the New York Red Bulls who lost 5-1 at home to rivals NYCFC. The first two goals were cringeworthy mistakes. Then after RBNY pulled one back, they immediately concede again. Then twice more in the second half.

The team is in a full tailspin that is one of their own creation. They sold Frankie Amaya but had no idea for a replacement. They needed a forward, but didn’t get one. RBNY needs to create a ton of opportunities to score a single goal because their finishing is lacking. Then they make a ton of mental mistakes on top of it.

pic.twitter.com/LruAfvOu8F

On another note, RBNY managed to qualify for the post season and continue their longest streak in the league. I am not sure if that’s a good thing for them. They can now claim success and delay the necessary changes they need. Failing to make the playoffs would make it harder to run from making the needed decisions. There is little chance the team goes far in the playoffs. They look like they’ll be easy work for Miami, Columbus, Cincinnati, Orlando, or Philly (who always get by them in the playoffs).

LAFC back on track: remember this time last week when we were wondering if LAFC was worn down? They were struggling since Leagues Cup and looked tired, even when factoring in their squad rotation for the Open Cup final. Well, they’re fine. Steve Cherundolo’s team has had a banner week, winning the Open Cup final against Sporting Kansas City last Wednesday and then travelling to Cincinnati and defeating one of the best teams in the league, 2-1 in Ohio.

Montreal is surging: Not long ago, I didn’t think much of Montreal’s playoff chances. Caden Clark has been the missing ingredient, and he has really pulled everything together in the attack. On another note, it’s also great watching Josef Martinez playing at such a high level again. You know one team who could use him right now? Atlanta United.

3 goals in 3 games ????Caden Clark is a man in form! pic.twitter.com/2mtigi90hl

Philly’s step back: I waffle a lot on Philadelphia this season. I didn’t like them, then I did, then I didn’t, then I did again, now I just don’t know. Their 1-1 draw with Atlanta might be what keeps them out of the playoffs. As other pundits have mentioned, the rest of their schedule is tough. Then you combine that with Atlanta getting hot. Either way, I think both of these teams are going to look a lot different next year.

Some of the games I will be following.

Atlanta vs. Montreal: This is an important game for both teams. If Montreal wins, they’re likely on the inside of the playoff bubble. If Atlanta wins, the have a chance. Atlanta has the most to lose, however, because if they don’t win, they’re probably done. Meanwhile, Josef Martinez returns to Atlanta playing great soccer.

Columbus vs. Inter Miami: This is a matchup between to of the best and most fun teams to watch in the league. Columbus won’t catch Miami for the Supporters Shield, but they’re still trying to seal second place. The question is how much does each team go for it, or how much do teams not want to show their best ahead of the playoffs? This could be a preview of the Eastern Conference final.

This is an impressive goal from Cucho… worth a watch pic.twitter.com/ASd1jBBUbi

NYCFC vs. Cincinnati: New York City lost to Philadelphia 5-1 in their last home game. Then over the weekend, they defeated the New York Red Bulls by the final score. They’re tough to figure out. Cincinnati is likely angry after losing at home to LAFC.

Orlando City vs. Philadelphia: Orlando City have had a great run the second half of the season. Philadelphia has improved but they are on the edge of the playoff bubble with a tough remaining schedule. Philly is going to have to come up with a big win against a good team down the stretch. This would qualify.

Real Salt Lake vs. Minnesota: a good midseason signing can change a lot, but Kelvin Yeboah run since joining Minnesota has been on another level. He is putting this team on his back with seven goals from six games. RSL is skidding but they’re playing at home.

Colorado vs. LA Galaxy: The Galaxy can strengthen their grip on first place in the West but Colorado is improved. The knock on the Galaxy, however, is their defense against top teams.

Toronto vs. New York Red Bulls: I didn’t think Toronto would make the playoffs, but they have a shot. But they must get a result at home against a Red Bulls team in a tailspin.

Vancouver vs. Seattle: two teams who can be fun to watch, but are on the outside of being among the West’s best teams. But momentum is key for a playoff run and if this game produces a winner, it will come.

There were three games involving American players in the Champions League on Tuesday, but none of the Yanks were on the winning side.

Bayer Leverkusen 1-0 AC Milan: The result was fair as the reigning Bundesliga champs were the better team playing at home. Christian Pulisic was good and his best moment came in the second half when he hit a very nice pass to Tijani Reijnders, only to see him fail to convert. Pulisic was subbed out in the 80th minute and saw his goal scoring streak end at five games. Yunus Musah was an unused substitute.

A few notes about Pulisic. He is in great shape and doesn’t seem to fade late in games. Even before he came out, he might have been Milan’s best player. That made his substitution puzzling. This is a Champions League game and Milan was still within grasp of a result. This game was very physical and Pulisic might have learned a lot from his time in England as that did not phase him.

Post-match reaction from the boss ?????#BayerMilan #UCL #SempreMilan pic.twitter.com/8uLd4vAaar

On another note, Musah just seems like he’s there to provide depth to Milan’s roster right now. He’s almost a luxury player.

PSV Eindhoven 1-1 Sporting CP: This was a tough result for PSV who will be disappointed not getting all three points. Malik Tillman had a solid 90-minute shift and was 6/7 with his dribbles. He was efficient with his passing and with the ball. His good season continues. Meanwhile, Ricardo Pepi made a late cameo but didn’t even earn a touch. What is also significant about this game is that Richard Ledezma came into the game in the 78th minute (with PSV leading 1-0) and was playing the No. 10 position as opposed to right back. But PSV has started their Champions League in tough fashion, with one point from two games.

Borussia Dortmund 7-1 Celtic: With Cameron Carter-Vickers injured, Auston Trusty was given the start at Celtic, and this was just a brutal game for everyone involved at Celtic – including Trusty. This game was ugly from the early goings.

Wright scores in Coventry win: Haji Wright has not had a good start to the season but he got back on track in Wednesday’s 3-0 win over Blackburn. The USMNT attacker scored a 48th minute goal for a 2-0 lead. Overall, he was dangerous and effective. The win pulled Coventry into midtable.

You really brought the noise last night. ? pic.twitter.com/ZQhkmlXNXd

Sargent and Aaronson play well in draw: Norwich and Leeds United played to a 1-1 draw on Wednesday in a result that will likely be more encouraging for Leeds United as they were on the road. Both Americans played full 90’s but it was Sargent who had one of the big moments of the game when he drew a penalty in the 14th minute and then converted the attempt to give Norwich a 1-0 lead.

A long wait to take it but Sarge fires the ball past Meslier to give us the lead. ???? #NCFC 1-0 #LUFC ?? (15) https://t.co/gciRl6FgEm

As for Aaronson, it was a typical hard-working effort where he had three shots and was relentless with his press.

Leeds finished the matchday in fourth place while Norwich sits 10th heading into the weekend.

Morris steady for Middlesbrough in win: Aidan Morris is having the same effect on Middlesbrough that he had with the Crew. It’s a credit to everyone involved, and Boro has indeed scouted a player who is the perfect fit. He controls the tempo of games, he’s efficient with his passing, he creates chances, and he plays strong defense. All of that was on display for Morris when he went a full 90 for Boro in a 1-0 win on the road over West Bromwich Albion.

Finally, Ethan Horvath was again on the bench as Cardiff defeated Millwall 1-0 for its first win of the season.
