HAPPY TUESDAY to ASN regular ASN readers or to people just checking everything out. Hope you stick around. Midweek brings us both games to analyze and preview. Plus there is also news of transfers, hirings, and firings. Yet, the United States national team still does not have a coach with September games now three weeks away.

Anyway, let’s just get into it.

After a tough start to the MLS season, the Seattle Sounders have been playing very well in the summer months. Before Leagues Cup, they won five out of their last six games. Now at Leagues Cup, they are into the quarterfinal after a dominant 4-0 win over Pumas.

The fact that Jordan Morris and Albert Rusnak had big games isn’t surprising. Both have a history of delivering in big games for the Sounders against both MLS and Liga MX opponents. But Paul Rothrock grabbed all the attention. First, he scored the opening goal. Then he nutmegged rising Mexican international star “Chino” Huerta. Pumas players did not take kindly to the score, or getting embarrassed. Towards the end of the game, Pumas’ Lisandro Magallán was given a red card and a penalty for a tough hit on Morris. Morris would then convert the penalty.

Seattle boss Brian Schmetzer spoke about the play from Rothrock afterward.

“They didn’t like that. Pumas is a proud team. Huerta’s one of their best players; he’s a $10 million player,” Schmetzer said. “And here’s our kid from Seattle’s Capitol Hill putting the ball between his legs down in the corner. I know why the Pumas players were upset.”

Paul Rothrock took us through nutmeging "Chino" Huerta and his emerging display of ball skills over the last few games.The #Sounders attacker commented on being looked as more of a sparkplug type player and not so much as a technical player.????:https://t.co/PpaH5bNvIT pic.twitter.com/k3QSEILWaO

Seattle is figuring things out now and is a dangerous team – once again. The win they had over the LA Galaxy was convincing. The problem for them is that they’re still not as good as LAFC. That means problems ahead for them the rest of the MLS season, and in the Leagues Cup where they will likely face LAFC next (LAFC faces San Jose on Tuesday).

If Seattle does take on LAFC, it is another measuring stick for the Sounders as to where they stand after their improved play began in June. Just imagine if Pedro de la Vega ever hits his stride (but just playing regularly would be an improvement).

The matchups are getting better in Leagues Cup, despite some of the top Mexican teams having already been ousted.

Columbus Crew vs. Inter Miami CF: The biggest game on slate for Tuesday. The two best teams in the league. No one ever thought Inter Miami would be this good without Lionel Messi. But they are, and they get important contributions from young players too. Meanwhile, Columbus looks as good as always. Even with Aidan Morris gone, the midfield is outstanding. Columbus came out of the gates swinging with a 4-0 romp over Sporting KC.

FC Cincinnati vs. Philadelphia Union: It’s always fun when these two teams meet up. Cincinnati turned around the dismal state of their club only when the began emulating the Union in hiring Chris Albright and Pat Noonan. Now Cincinnati is better, and they spend more money. Many are expected the Union to make big changes to their core group that have been together for a long time, but lately they’ve been on the upswing.

Cruz Azul vs. Mazatlán FC: An all-Liga MX matchup features one of the biggest clubs in Liga MX against a small team enjoying a Cinderella run in Leagues Cup.

New York City FC vs. Tigres UNAL: A young NYCFC team taking on a veteran Tigres team that is very, very difficult to beat in knockout style tournaments. It always takes a big effort to take down this Tigres group of players. It will be a great test for a young and upcoming NYCFC team at Red Bull Arena.

Club America vs. St. Louis CITY: This would be a huge upset if St. Louis can pull this off. Club America is the best team remaining in this tournament and St. Louis is in the middle of a rocky season where they’re trying to find a identity.

Toluca vs. Colorado: Toluca is favored in this game. Colorado barely held on to beat FC Juarez at home. Toluca is a much better team than Juarez and Colorado looked very tired are their of their last game. Colorado needs to raise their game.

Los Angeles FC vs. San Jose Earthquakes: While San Jose is playing much better at Leagues Cup and is having a nice tournament, there is no way they can be favored against LAFC. Yes, San Jose defeated Necaxa 5-0 in their last game, but it would be stunning if they can continue that. Jeremey Ebobisse will be a problem for LAFC given his form. But LAFC are also going to be boosted with the likely debut of Olivier Giroud.

The Chicago Fire have been bad for a long time. They’ve made it to the playoffs once since 2013 (an that was a quick first round exit in 2017). They haven’t won a playoff series since 2009.

It was very surprising when no coaching changes or front office changes were made after last season. It seemed like something that had to happen, so why wait?

Well, the Fire waited, until now. Georg Heitz announced he was leaving the club due to personal reasons.

Sporting Director Georg Heitz today announced that he will depart the Club following the conclusion of the Fire’s 2024 MLS season for personal reasons. pic.twitter.com/LSZYXHcOj1

Unsurprisingly, the fans were happy. But this past season just seems like such a waste. So much work remains ahead. They could have started it sooner.

Two Americans were on the move today with transfers or loans.

First, Christian Cappis was sold from Brondby in Denmark to Viking FK in Norway. That move will send Cappis to the team currently sitting second in Norway’s Eliteserien.

Second, Sam Rogers was loaned from Lillestrom to Aalesunds in Norway’s second tier. Aalesunds needs help as they are amid a relegation battle and Rogers should bolster their backline.

The top games for Americans abroad came from the Carabao Cup matchups in England where several of the Americans in the top two tiers of England got to feature.

There were plenty of highlights.

Gaga Slonina is off to a strong start in his loan to Barnsley as he save two penalties in a shootout to help his club edge past Wigan after a 1-1 draw.

Debutant Gabriel Slonina inspired the Reds to first-round victory against Wigan Athletic in the @Carabao_Cup this evening!https://t.co/kVcT7Bq8wZ

Charlie Kelman played the final 30 minutes for Leyton Orient and scored the team's final goal of a 4-1 win over Newport County. Kelman, 22, is off to a very strong start on his loan to Leyton Orient from QPR. He scored in Leyton Orient's League One opener over the weekend.

Auston Trusty didn't play in Sheffield United's Championship opening win but he got the start against Wrexham on Tuesday. He was responsible for Wrexham's opening goal when he poorly defended a corner. But he then scored the equalizer minutes later when headed home a corner kick. Sheffield United ended up winning 4-2.

AMERICAN AUSTON TRUSTY'S FIRST GOAL WITH THE CLUB LEVELS SHEFFIELD WITH WREXHAM ???????? pic.twitter.com/FwaFbOF3v0

Lynden Gooch came off the bench in the 66th minute for Stoke City and assisted on the team's second goal of a 2-0 win over Carlisle United.

Haji Wright started and played 65 minutes for Coventry in a 1-0 win over Bristol.

Duane Holmes didn't play in Preston North End's Championship opening loss on Saturday but he played the final 21 minutes of their 2-0 win over Sunderland on Tuesday.
