THE WEEKEND IN MLS was a fun one because most of the talk was about the greatest player of all time and a ton of goalazos. If only every week could be about Lionel Messi and an impressive wave of spectacular strikes.

Let’s start with my thoughts on the weekend in MLS.

It’s been years since we had a weekend in MLS with as many high quality goalazos. It’s good that when Messi puts more eyeballs on the league, that you get strikes like these – three of which came from players from Argentina.

Any goal that leaves Andre Blake standing still was probably an incredible strike. Trauco’s strike was hard, swerving, and perfectly placed. It also gave San Jose a 2-1 win over Philly.

Great strike from Trauco to put San Jose up 2-1 on Philly. A lot of bangers in MLS tonight pic.twitter.com/7xwSUemT5L

Acosta is a candidate for MVP this season for good reason. This was his eighth of the season in a 1-1 away draw over Vancouver. He is a reason why Cincinnati is cruising in first.

Fantastic goal from Acosta. Night of Bangers continues pic.twitter.com/bqVs2krGr1

The Argentine developed at Newell’s Old Boys, where Messi came from, and he has been a big addition for Houston. Houston is turning around after being a doormat for years. Saturday’s 4-0 win over LAFC was an eye-opener and this final goal from Escobar dipped nicely into the goal past McCarthy.

Franco Escobar from DOWNTOWN Houston ?? pic.twitter.com/ZqEMRNsCNF

The American attacker now has six goals and one assist on the season for a better than advertised St. Louis City team. He’s still only 22 and shouldn’t be discounted for an eventual return to the national team. His last appearance was the win in the 2021 Gold Cup final.

But this goal on Saturday in a 1-1 draw with the Galaxy was tremendous.

Outrageous from @Nicholas_gioacc ????‍???? ???? Watch on Fox or free on #MLSSeasonPass: https://t.co/Usli22aS4G pic.twitter.com/Jv9PwUKkq2

When you spend a lot of money on players, you get goals like this from Lorenzo Insigne. The Italian’s strike came in Saturday’s 1-1 draw with Nashville.

If that ain't a trademark tiraggiro ????@Lor_Insigne | #TFCLive pic.twitter.com/RxShgdRDzU

The Columbus Crew playmaker showed why he can deliver for Columbus. The game against Chicago was 1-1 in Soldier Field and Zelarayan hit this shot from inside his own half to give Columbus a 2-1 win.

Some stoppage time winners are better than others. Lucas Zelarayan #Crew96 pic.twitter.com/Z7f2fKTTvq

Raul Ruidiaz his this goalazo to give Seattle a 2-1 lead in its wild 3-3 away draw against Charlotte on Saturday.

OH MY, RUIDÍAZ! ???? pic.twitter.com/vi07Yc96qx

Messi continues to dominate

As Doug McIntyre reported over the weekend, MLS and Inter Miami were “blindsided” by Messi announcing he was coming to Miami. All of the PR that has been coming out of Miami and the league is on the fly as MLS was waiting for the deal to be complete. But as McIntyre reports, that could happen this week.

But since then, there has just been a wave of publicity. Everything Inter Miami does right now is getting attention – including losing for the sixth straight time.

Everyone is talking about Messi including the always blunt Bruce Arena who said: "I think bringing Lionel Messi into our league is fabulous,"

Soccer America had these quotes from Arena who was front and center during David Beckham’s era in the league (which was ultimately successful, despite a poor roll out).

"Our league has grown considerably," said Arena. "I had Beckham. I came in LA after Beckham had a tough year and a half. David came in 2007, he came in mid-year and it was a mess. These things aren't easy. And then I came in LA in July or August of of 2008. And we just hung in there for the remainder of the year. We brought in 19 new players the following year and made it to the MLS Cup final. And then we got obviously a little bit better and all of that.

"But it's challenging. It's not gonna be easy for Miami. But Miami has a better roster now than I had in LA coming in in 2008. So they're gonna be fine. And Messi's gonna win games. If Mess was on the field tonight, it would've been a real challenge for us. So it's good for the team, it's good for Miami, it's great for the league."

Arena brings up an excellent point. It would be one thing if Messi was joining a good team – like LAFC, Cincinnati, or Seattle. But he’s joining a team that is mired in last place. In some of the biggest player rollouts in league history, the initial rollouts have been bungled.

Generally, the timing has been off for each of these big acquisitions. Either the players were sucked down to the level of being on a bad team, or they performed well but not enough to make the team contend.

Now, Messi joining the league is bigger news than any of the above. But it’s not going to be fun if it is going to take awhile to make Miami competitive.

Rapid Fire Thoughts

July 8 he suits up pic.twitter.com/UCtZw9WWUA

GIAKOUMAKIS FROM A CRAZY ANGLE ?? pic.twitter.com/gmfE2IHxmB

Absolute howler by Sean Johnson on the equalizing goal, and that was totally his fault. But it was also really bad by Bernardeschi to lose the ball in a dangerous spot, and then make no effort to close down the shot.pic.twitter.com/gT9eufPuFl

PuliGOL? Nah, Puli????????????????!Alan with a home brace ?? pic.twitter.com/0tYWRJB2qr

This assist from Swiderski is well with a watch. Charlotte finds an equalizer after a tough start vs Seattle.- this will be the assist of the week pic.twitter.com/Plsv2SRuGK

A+ counterattack from San Jose. I wish they posted the whole clip (it went the entire length of the field). Ebobbise does well in the hold-up, then to pass to Cade Cowell. Cowell stretches Philly, gets it back to Ebobbise for the classy finish. pic.twitter.com/YSqjGhol6Z
