THE WEEKEND FOR Americans abroad did not have nearly the fireworks that last weekend had. Goals were few and far between (Steve Pittman and Lynden Gooch, take a bow), and many of the key national team starters didn’t have noteworthy impacts on their games. On the flip side, there were very few poor outings. In the end, we were left with a fairly average weekend – which is fine.

For Bryan Reynolds, teenage right back made his Serie A debut for Roma in a loss. Reynolds was not the only FC Dallas academy product to make a milestone as Brandon Servania made his first start for St. Poelten in the Austrian Bundesliga. The Alabama native is at the club on loan.

Looking at the top U.S. national team players, it was particularly quiet. Christian Pulisic made his first start for Thomas Tuchel at Chelsea in a 0-0 draw with Leeds United. Giovanni Reyna played 19 minutes for Borussia Dortmund in a 2-0 win over Hertha Berlin and his time was uneventful. Antonee Robinson played just the final 10 minutes for Fulham in a 3-0 loss against Manchester City while Zack Steffen watched from the bench. New commit Yunus Musah, 18, only had limited minutes for Valencia in a loss to Levante.

In Italy, Weston Mckennie, likely having his minutes limited to return to 100%, played just the final 20 minutes for Juventus to see out a 3-1 win over Cagliari. John Brooks started for Wolfsburg in a 5-0 laugher over Matthew Hoppe and Schalke. Josh Sargent played well for Werder Bremen but couldn’t prevent a 3-0 loss to Bayern Munich. Tyler Adams played just five minutes for RB Leipzig in a 1-1 draw with Eintracht Frankfurt. Chris Richards, was not at full health, and struggled in a 2-0 loss to VfB Stuttgart. Tim Weah started for Lille and played 65 minutes in a 0-0 draw with Monaco.

The performances over the weekend among the key players was mostly uneventful. But there still are some important things cover in detail. So here we go.

Bryan Reynolds, 19, had a major milestone on Sunday when he made his first-team debut for AS Roma when he was subbed into a game against Parma in the 60th minute, trailing 2-0. In the end, Reynolds appeared nervous but grew over the course of his 30 minutes on the field. He had 14 touches and didn’t make much of an impact and 2-0 ended up being the final score.

For Reynolds, his recent transfer from FC Dallas was a particularly unique move compared with recent transfers. Having 0 caps, not being a prominent U.S. youth national team player or an established player with FC Dallas, he still secured a high value transfer to a big five league with a powerful Serie A club. He only took over the starting right back job at Dallas after the sale of Reggie Cannon in August.

Roma will continue to give him chances as they are heavily invested in him. Reynolds is on a groundbreaking path for American players and his success could continue to change the way American players are scouted and valued.

His debut was uneventful, but it was still a positive step in an extraordinary moment.

It was somewhat strange that Daryl Dike did not start for Barnsley on Saturday against an AFC Bournemouth team that started Cameron Carter-Vickers. Barnsley had accumulated 22 out of 24 points since Dike began playing for them on loan from Orlando City.

This game was massive in the promotional playoff race as Barnsley sat in sixth place, two points ahead of seventh place AFC Bournemouth with teams finishing 3-6 qualify for the promotional playoffs.

Dike, 20, came into the game in the 67th minute with the game even a 2-2. In the 80th minute, Carlton Morris scored the winner for Barnsley for a 3-2 away win and a five-point grip on the playoff spots.

The matchup between Dike and Carter-Vickers provided one of the game’s best highlights. When Dike made a blazing run to show off his footspeed and followed it with a tackle to strip Carter-Vickers of the ball.

This tackle from Daryl Dike pic.twitter.com/DMyP4kIhUX

The now viral highlight comes in light of reports of huge eight-figure deals being floated for Dike from Premier League clubs. His athleticism, size, and strength combined with improving tactical skill makes him truly unique.

Now, it very much appears as if Barnsley is heading to the promotion playoffs, and given the difference between these clubs.

Interesting stat from today AFC Bournemouth squad cost £145m Barnsley £5m.

There is still a chance Dike returns to Orlando, but it seems less and less likely right now.

Reggie Cannon, 23, earned the start for Galatasaray on Sunday in a 3-0 away win over Kayserispor. It was an important win for the club but they have lost important ground in recent weeks to Besiktas and have fallen into second place of the Super Lig. This win maintains that course.

Yedlin, 27, did his part and put up outstanding numbers in the win. His move to Turkey has been a huge help for him to return to the field in important games.

Yedlin has boosted his chances immensely to be part of European soccer again and be a regular member of the U.S. national team again. It has been a huge transfer.

On Saturday against Leeds United, Christian Pulisic earned his first start for Chelsea since Thomas Tuchel took over for Frank Lampard.

The Hershey native ended up playing 68 minutes in a 0-0 draw. He was part of creating three good chances in the first half but Chelsea was unable to finish. It wasn’t an outstanding performance but Pulisic was solid enough to probably continue playing for Chelsea.

It still remains to be seen what happens with Pulisic this summer and it could be an interesting situation.

Werder Bremen did not have much of a chance against a surging Bayern Munich on Saturday and while it did fall 3-1 at home to he European champions, American forward Josh Sargent had a nice game against the elite competition.

Sargent, 21, saw his three-game goal scoring run end but he continues to play well. Over 90 minutes, he did not disappear – as was his problem earlier in the season. He got on the ball often with 45 touches and his hold up play was able to muster the little attack Werder was able to manage.

Sargent is slowly turning the page of a rough midseason form and is playing well heading into what will be a busy stretch for both club and country. It’s been a very long time since he last played for the U.S. team but he seems to be the starter by a healthy margin.

John Brooks continues to anchor what is arguably best defense in the Bundesliga. Following Saturday’s 5-0 romp over Schalke, Wolfsburg has conceded just 21 goals in 25 games which is tied with Leipzig for the fewest conceded.

Brooks, 27, wasn’t tested too much but he was able to take advantage of his time on the ball to pass well. He was also strong in winning his duels and aerials.

If Brooks continues this form, he should be in the Champions League next year as Wolfsburg remains in third place in the Bundesliga.

As for Hoppe, the American teenager played the final 18 minutes in the loss. He managed a shot and worked hard but his team was simply overmatched and it didn’t offer him much of an opportunity to fairly showcase himself. It seems like, however, on a better team or with Schalke in the 2.Bundesliga, he is going to have a chance for success next season. His work ethic will take him a long way.

In the Austrian Bundesliga on Saturday, Red Bull Salzburg cruised to a 3-1 win over Admira Moedling to remain five points clear atop the table. American manager Jesse Marsch looks poised to win his second title in Austria while Brenden Aaronson, 20, is in great shape to win his first with the club.

Both teams in this game started players who were part of the Philadelphia Union’s 2020 Supporters Shield winning squad. Aaronson was a starter for that team and was eventually named to the league’s Best XI. That secured a high-priced transfer to Salzburg. Meanwhile, Andrew Wooten was released by the Union in December and joined Admira Moedling in January

Both players have played well coming into this game. Aaronson had two goals and two assists over eight games while Wooten had three goals and an assist over eight games for last-place Admira.

This game was simply no contest. Neither American featured in any of the goals. Wooten was starved for service and couldn’t get anything done.

Aaronson was active and highly involved in the first half and slowed down in the second as Salzburg looked content to see out the win. He missed a big chance also in the first half when he connected poorly with a ball in a dangerous location.

Overall, however, he fit in nicely with his team and is steadily growing into his role under Marsch.

This will be interesting to see how he evolves now into the national team set-up that has welcomed Yunus Musah this past week.

Not 100% for this game while reportedly playing with an injury, Chris Richards had his toughest outing for Hoffenheim so far. The Alabama native was not as sharp and Hoffenheim were convincingly defeated by VfB Stuttgart 2-0. Richards has been outstanding since arriving on loan in January but in this game he struggled to stay with attackers at key moments.

As for VfB Stuttgart, American manager Pellegrino Matarazzo continues to be a massive success for the club. Over the past 14 months since taking over, he has guided it to promotion and has impressed in the top flight where they sit in eighth place. Not only is his team playing well, but Stuttgart also plays a very entertaining brand of soccer.

In terms of the rest of the top stories across the globe, here is what else was in my notebook:

Luca de la Torre, 22, continues to impress and the San Diego native was solid in the midfield as he helped Heracles to a 2-1 away win over ADO Den Haag to move inside the top 10 of the Eredivisie. His 2021 has seen a sharp increase in the productivity of his career.

In Scotland’s Premiership, Scott Pittman scored a game winner for Livingston FC in a 2-1 win over Hamilton Academical. Livingston sits fifth in Scotland.

In Portugal’s top flight, Reggie Cannon started for Boavista on Sunday in a 2-0 loss to Benfica. Cannon struggled a bit in this as Boavista was down to 10 players in just the 10th minute. With the loss, Boavista fell back into the relegation playoff position.

In Turkey’s top flight, Tyler Boyd started and played 89 minutes for Sivasspor in a 1-0 win over Fatih Karagumruk. The New Zealand-born American winger did not make much of an impact despite the win.

In the Championship, Duane Holmes enjoyed a solid and effective outing for Huddersfield Town in a 1-0 away win over Queens Park Rangers (where Geoff Cameron went as an unused substitute).

In the semifinals of the Belgian Cup, Genk got by Anderlecht 2-1. Matt Miazga had an own goal in the loss while Mark McKenzie played just the final 18 minutes to help Genk see out the win. The two might be national team teammates next week.

In Switzerland’s Super League, Jordan Siebatcheu seems likely to earn his first call-up and he picked up an assist for BSC Young Boys on Sunday in a 2-2 draw with St. Gallen. It is hard to tell if it was a shot or a pass, but it was important to helping the run away leaders salvage a point.

???????? A lovely assist by Jordan Siebatcheu to put the goal on a plate for Meschack Elia & secure a late point at kybunpark vs St. Gallen. He surely HAS to be in the squad for their friendlies vs. Jamaica and Northern Ireland this month.???? @zumrundenleder pic.twitter.com/W5rQrmaWy9

In Serie B, Andrija Novakovich played 79 minutes for Frosinone in a 1-0 loss at home to Brescia. Unfortunately for the Wisconsin native, that loss was a painful blow in its hopes to qualify for the promotional playoffs.

In Denmark, Haji Wright started and played 90 minutes in a 2-0 win over AC Horsens. Emmanuel Sabbi played just 15 minutes in a 3-0 loss at home to league-leading Brondby.

Finally, congratulations to Brandon Servania who earned his first start for St. Poelten where he played 82 minutes in a 1-0 loss to Altach. The FC Dallas loanee looked sharp and ready for consistent playing time the remainder of the season before returning to Texas.
