THE VANCOUVER WHITECAPS achieved a huge result on Thursday night when they defeated Inter Miami 2-0 at home in the first leg of the CONCACAF Champions Cup semifinal. Both goals were scored by American players with Brian White opening the scoring in the first half and Sebastian Berhalter adding the second.

We dedicated this week to doing a little behind the scenes catch-up, but this game warrants a little week in review.

Here are some thoughts north of the border.

Vancouver’s run in the CONCACAF Champions Cup has been impressive as they have advanced past Deportivo Saprissa, Monterrey, Pumas, and now have the 2-0 advantage after one leg against Miami in what was an emotional win in Canada.

Americans are front and center: Vancouver is in this tournament by virtue of winning the Canadian Championship, but Americans are having a huge role in this team’s success. Brian White has been one of the best forwards in MLS in recent years (and the best American forward by a healthy margin). This tournament has allowed him to showcase himself in bigger games and it also comes at a time when he is on the edge of the U.S. national team.

Brian White owns the CONCACAF Champions Cup.. goals vs Saprissa, Monterrey, and now Inter Miami. He just scores goals pic.twitter.com/vKVabjiLit

Meanwhile, Sebastian Berhalter is improving his game and stock beyond anything expected. He has been a driving force in Vancouver’s run to the final and has saved his best performances in big games. It would not be surprising at all to see a good argument exist for Berhalter to be called up to the U.S. national team next January if he maintains this level.

There are other players too, such as Emmanuel Sabbi, who has done well off the bench to bring athleticism in running at tired defenders.

The city is behind the team: Vancouver has not been a hotbed of passionate support for the Whitecaps, but the support was extraordinary on Thursday night. This is a fun team that is playing attractive soccer, not just winning. But for the success of this team long term, this type of support is necessary.

What a night in Canada! ???????????? pic.twitter.com/UkFrDBFRa8

Balancing MLS play: We have seen MLS teams make runs in the Champions Cup/League, but what is unique about the Whitecaps is that they are also doing well in MLS play as well. This is not like Seattle, Toronto, or even Columbus who struggled in league play during runs to the final.

Adaptability in games: Right now Jesper Sorensen is emerging as a top coach in MLS and he seemingly has his team ready for anything and everything. Vancouver enjoys possession of the ball and that is how they’ve been able to win games. But against Miami, the Caps were not able to control the ball nearly as much as they wanted. With this, the team had to adapt in the game to a more defense/counter approach and it worked.

The second leg: Miami trailed LAFC 1-0 after the first leg in the quarterfinal and then conceded early to trail 2-0 (which was effectively a 3-0 hole due to goal differential). They still found a way to win. They’re obviously still able to win. But they are walking a much tighter rope. If Vancouver scores first, Miami is going to need four goals. That threat makes it risky for Miami to go all out in the attack early. This Vancouver defense is playing much better than LAFC’s defense.

Led by Brian White and Sebastian Berhalter, Vancouver has Inter Miami on the ropes with a 2-0 win in the first leg of the CONCACAF Champions Cup semifinal- I’ll have more on this for ASN today- entertaining game- awesome atmosphere in BC pic.twitter.com/KrogK3uutg

But Vancouver’s run has been a lot of fun and very interesting. While many would like to see Messi win the CONCACAF Champions Cup, Vancouver has other ideas.

Christian Pulisic will get a chance to play for the Coppa Italia after advancing past Inter Milan, 3-0 (4-1 on aggregate), on Wednesday. It gives the troubled team a chance to salvage what has been a troubled season. Pulisic has been a rare bright spot for Milan this season but was far from the team’s best player in the big win over city rivals Inter. He played 78 minutes.

Us. ??????#InterMilan #SempreMilan #CoppaItaliaFrecciarossa pic.twitter.com/acjXE0PfN5

Staying in Italy but switching to Serie A, Weston Mckennie had a bad outing for Juventus when he started on the right side but was pulled in the 57th minute in a 1-0 loss to Parma. His career is at a point where he swings wildly between good and bad (including the national team) but there is a trend where he tends to struggle towards the end of seasons. Meanwhile, Tim Weah didn’t show anything in his brief cameo.

In Spain, Real Betis ran Real Valladolid off the field in the second half of a 5-1 win at home. The last four goals came after this 64th minute. Johnny Cardoso again put in a very good performance, this time going all 90 minutes. He’s been one of the best American players in Europe this season.

Rokas Pukstas continues to have a setback season. Last year he was seen as one of the top young Americans in the game with Hajduk Split but this season, he is not nearly having the same impact with his club. On Wednesday, Haduk Split lost at home 1-0 to NK Nistra to fall out of first place. The only goal of the game happened after a Pukstas turnover. He was then pulled in the 54th minute. His value has fallen and this summer we can find out just how far.

Finally in the Eredivisie, PSV Eindhoven conceded an opening minute goal to Twente but then rolled to a 3-1 victory. Richard Ledezma started for PSV but it was his error that led to the Twente goal. Malik Tillman came off the bench in the 69th minute and the broadcasters mentioned that Tillman didn’t start because he was late to a team meeting.
