WITH THE FALL-SPRING seasons now complete throughout Europe, we know how all of the Americans players in those leagues fared with a wide range of good, bad, and ugly. The big takeaway is how many of the top national team players are set to play in the Europa League next season while the Champions League is expected to see a significant drop.

Of course, there is the coming summer transfer window which will affect the number of players in European competitions next season. But here are the results based on the previous season.

Sergino Dest (PSV Eindhoven): Netherlands Eredivisie

Ricardo Pepi (PSV Eindhoven): Netherlands Eredivisie

Auston Trusty (Celtic): Scottish Premiership

Cameron Carter-Vickers (Celtic): Scottish Premiership

Samuel Adeniran (LASK): Austrian Bundesliga

George Bello (LASK): Austrian Bundesliga

Haji Wright (Coventry): English Championship

Gianluca Busio (Venezia): Serie B

Sergino Dest (PSV Eindhoven): Eredivisie winner

Ricardo Pepi (PSV Eindhoven): Eredivisie winner

Alex Freeman (Villarreal): 3rd place LaLiga

Johnny Cardoso (Atletico Madrid): 4th place LaLiga

Mathis Albert (Borussia Dortmund): 2nd in Bundesliga

Auston Trusty (Celtic): Scottish Premiership. Enters into the Playoff Phase.

Cameron Carter-Vickers (Celtic): Scottish Premiership. Enters into the Playoff Phase.

Samuel Adeniran (LASK): Austrian Bundesliga. Enters into the Playoff phase.

George Bello (LASK): Austrian Bundesliga. Enters into Playoff phase.

Tanner Tessmann (Lyon): 4th place Ligue 1. Enters into the Third Qualifying Round

Tyler Adams (AFC Bournemouth): 6th place finish in Premier League

Chris Richards (Crystal Palace): Conference League champions

Christian Pulisic (AC Milan): 5th place in Serie A

Weston McKennie (Juventus): 6th place in Serie A

Tim Weah (Marseille): 5th in Ligue 1

Malik Tillman (Bayer Leverkusen): 6th in the Bundesliga

Cole Campbell (Hoffenheim): 5th in the Bundesliga

Pellegrino Matarazzo (Real Sociedad, head coach): Copa del Rey winner

Rokas Pukstas (Hajduk Split): 2nd in Croatian HNL. Enters in First Qualifying Round

Taylor Booth (FC Twente): 4th in the Eredivisie. Enters in Second Qualifying Round

Leon Flach (Jagiellonia Bialystok): 3rd in the Polish Ekstraklassa. Enters in Third Qualifying Round

Folarin Balogun (Monaco): 7th in Ligue 1. Enters in Playoff Round

Fabian Hurzeler (Bright & Hove Albion, head coach): 7th in the Premier League. Enters in Playoff Round

Erik Palmer Brown (Panathinaikos): 4th in Greece Super League. Enters in Second Qualification round

Yunus Musah (Atalanta): 7th in Serie A. Enters in Playoff Round

Gianluca Busio (Venezia): Serie B to Serie A

Haji Wright (Coventry): Championship to the Premier League

Santiago Castaneda (Paderborn): 2.Bundesliga to Bundesliga

Niel Pierre (Lyngby): Danish 1.Division to Superliga

Scott Pittman (Livingston): Scottish Premiership to Scottish Championship

Andrija Novakovich (Reggiana): Serie B to Serie C

Jonathan Amon (Vejle Boldklub): Danish Superliga to 1.Division

Jordan Pefok (Tondela): Portguese Primeira Liga to Liga Portugal 2

- Pefok returned to Stade de Reims following the season

Kevin Paredes (Wolfsburg): Bundesliga to 2.Bundesliga

- Paredes left Wolfsburg following the season and is a free agent

James Sands (St. Pauli): Bundesliga to 2.Bundesliga

- Sands concluded his loan from New York City following the season

Eduvie Ikoba (Kazincbarcikai SC): Hungary’s NB I to NB II.
