THE UNITED STATES U-20 National team wrapped up its March camp with a 1-1 draw against Japan on Monday, which came on the heels of a 3-0 win over Mexico on Saturday. Overall, it was another successful camp for a team that has turned in a series of good results since Marko Mitrovic took control of the team as head coach in October.

Against Japan, the game was frantic and fast-paced from both teams. Over the 90 minutes, the U.S. team won the midfield battle but conceded the opener in the first half after a mistake from Pedro Soma put Japan in a dangerous position. Then 15 minutes into the second half, the U.S. team equalized on a great turnover and run from Kristian Fletcher. After weaving around Japanese defenders, Fletcher played Niko Tsakiris into the box for a nice finish.

Against Mexico, the U.S. team started strong and ended stronger in a 3-0 win. Luke Brennan opened the scoring followed by two goals from Fletcher, who came in as a substitute. Julian Eyestone made a penalty stop and the U.S. team had to fight but eventually gained control of the game.

Here are some specific thoughts

Since Marko Mitrovic took over as head coach following his leading the Olympic team, the team has been flying high. The first camp in October in Chile saw the U.S. team defeat the hosts 3-0 in Santiago with the first-choice group of players followed by a 1-0 loss (also against Chile) with mostly reserves. Then in September, the U.S. team defeated both South Korea and France in Spain. Now in March, the team notched a win over Mexico and a draw against Japan. In between there was a January camp that did not feature an international friendly.

Josh Wynder ???? Matthew Corcoran ???? Niko Tsakiris ???? Taha Habroune ???? Benjamin Cremaschi ???? Kristian Fletcher#U20MNT pic.twitter.com/px5SFYbSXi

Overall, it’s hard not to like where this team stands.

This past March camp wasn’t perfect. The team made some sloppy plays that gifted opponents chances, and in each game the team was slow to start. In both games, it took the U.S. team a little more time than Mitrovic probably wanted to gain control of the game and implement its game plan.

But that is youth soccer. Things are always going to be a little more difficult and little more error prone. The point is that that the team still found a way to eventually gain control and never let things get out of hand as it was figuring the game out.

When taking stock of the past camp, the first important point is that there were no losers. Some players played better than others, but no one really hurt their stock. If Mitrovic was to pick his ideal U-20 World Cup team, it would draw heavily from this roster.

In terms of who impressed the most, here are a few names.

Kristian Fletcher: The versatile attacker was had two goals and an assist across both games in this window and greatly helped his case that he should be part of the team’s plans heading into the World Cup. Now on loan from DC United to Nottingham Forest’s reserve team, Fletcher will hopefully find more first team minutes this year.

Let him cook ??????#U20MNT pic.twitter.com/3WSR6VdkKg

Luke Brennan: Despite not playing much for Atlanta United, Brennan continues to put up very good offensive numbers for this U-20 team , including scoring the opening goal in the win over Mexico. While it would be much more ideal if he was playing more for Atlanta, right now it is hard to see him not starting on the wing for U-20 team right now heading into the months before the World Cup.

Frankie Westfield: The Philadelphia Union right back has been a pleasant surprise to the U-20 player pool. After starting the first four games of the season for the Union where he performed very well, Westfield essentially forced his way onto this U-20 roster and showed he belonged. It’s always a good thing during a U-20 cycle to see players increase their stock at their clubs and earn U-20 callups. It helps raise the bar for the team. Westfield is off to a strong start in 2025.

Marko Mitrovic doesn’t have a lot of time remaining with this group. He will have a camp in June and maybe one later in the summer. Then it will be time for the September camp which will essentially just be the final preparation for the World Cup. This past camp confirmed the team's strength in goalkeeping and in central defense. It can be a very difficult team to break down.

Flying first class to Keepersville. ??????#U20MNT pic.twitter.com/YS2ZPfiMn8

There are still a few areas Mitrovic would probably want to improve his team. The center forward position remains thin and unconvincing. Keyrol Figueroa and Marcos Zambrano are the incumbents. Figueroa once seemed as key player to start this cycle but his position on the team might be vulnerable. Fortunately for him, no one has risen to take his place and Zambrano’s club situation in Portugal hasn’t been great.

Left back is also unsettled. Peyton Miller has been injured and wasn’t at this past camp. He surprisingly played a lot for the New England Revolution last season at the age of 16. He’s still young and is playing up a cycle. Nolan Norris can play both left back and central defense. He is well liked by this group and captained the squad in World Cup qualifying. But the left back position needs clarity.

Above all, Mitrovic needs to see first team minutes increase for this team as most are playing for reserve and youth teams. If a player starts playing well at the first team level, his stock could change quickly (as we saw with Westfield recently). This is a good team, but right now the player pool is not at the level of recent U-20 cycles in terms of minutes.

Finally, there is the big topic of getting players released for the World Cup. Mitrovic needs to have discussions with clubs now or soon over players he knows he would like to have at the U-20 World Cup. This might not always be possible because some players could get traded, loaned, or transferred this summer before the World Cup. But there are enough key players right now he can feel confident where they will be playing in the fall.

As everyone knows, the U-20 World Cup will have a very different timeline compared with most previous editions. It will begin on September 27 and run through October 19. This will make player release issues a lot more difficult since it comes during both the MLS, Liga MX, and European seasons. The only positive is that the back end of the tournament falls in the FIFA International Window from October 6 through October 14.

Mitrovic might consider holding some spots on the roster for players who can only join during the window. That might be the only way to have a few of the top players be available to him at the tournament.

In the Mix: Gavin Beavers

In the Mix: Leo Duru, Grayson Dettoni, Noah Cobb, Aiden Harangi, Ethan Kohler, Freddie Anderson, Oscar Verhoeven, Stuart Hawkins

11) Pedro Soma (FC Barcelona)12) Taha Habroune (Columbus Crew)13) Brooklyn Raines (Houston Dynamo)14) Matthew Corcoran (Nashville SC)15) Benjamin Cremaschi (Inter Miami)16) Niko Tsakiris (San Jose Earthquakes)

In the Mix: Sergio Oregel, Paulo Rudisill, Darius Lane, Cruz Medina, Bryan Moyado

17) Cole Campbell (Borussia Dortmund)18) Kristian Fletcher (Nottingham Forest)19) Luke Brennan (Atlanta United)20) Keyrol Figueroa (Liverpool)21) Ruben Ramos Jr. (LA Galaxy)

In the Mix: Marco Zambrano, Zavier Gozo, David Vazquez, Nimfasha Berchimas, Cayden Glover
