WE ARE AT THE TRANSITIONAL phase where across Europe, the preseason gradually blends into the regular season with leagues and cups starting at the same time when clubs in other countries are still wrapping up preseason friendlies. But with that, there is a lot of news to cover with regards to the American players there.

It’s time to open up the ASN European notebook.

The early signs for Sebastian Berhalter at Middlesbrough are very positive. The former Vancouver Whitecap and current U.S. national team midfielder signed for Boro right after the World Cup and has immediately fit into his new team.

On Friday, Middlesbrough won its first competitive game of the season in a 1-0 victory over Wrexham in the EFL Cup. Max Arfsten and Berhalter started while Aiden Morris is injured.

The game’s only goal was assisted by Berhalter.

An excellent goal from Boro as we hit the front!Sarmiento's cross was helped back across by Berhalter to Lankshear, who hooked it into the corner on the volley for his first goal in Boro colours! ????‍???????? 1-0 ?? '61 https://t.co/Mdom7Dp3b5

For Arfsten, he played well although clearly is still trying to get into synch with his teammates. But the club is happy to have him after chasing him for over a year.

???????? Kim Hellberg on Max Arfsten:"We’re very excited to work with Max. It’s easy to see why we’ve chased him for a long time. He’s a talented player with a lot of good qualities and it’s good to get to work with him." pic.twitter.com/9IdgdGV2OF

For Berhalter, the early returns are extremely positive. In the team’s final friendly, a 3-3 draw with Espanyol, Berhalter was one of the most effective players on the field in another set piece assist and creating the build-up to several good chances.

Boro fans are very excited about Berhalter’s potential.

One of the big themes with transfers out of MLS in recent years is that those who have moved to Championship clubs have all almost immediately done well. Boro as a club might have four starters the club acquired from MLS teams (the three Americans along with Adilson Malanda).

But Boro is not a typical Championship club, this is one of the biggest teams in the league and has legitimate hopes of being promoted to the Premier League. The questions is whether these players can succeed in the Championship, but rather can the lead a club to promotion and then play a role in the Premier League? Boro seems to think they can.

In the opening weekend of the Eredivisie, defending champions PSV was held to a 2-2 draw with Fortuna Sittard. Ricardo Pepi started for PSV while Sergino Dest was serving a suspension from the end of last season.

Pepi had 17 touches with four shots. His best chance came in the 51st minute when he forced a save from close range on an opportunity he should have done more with.

Also in the Eredivisie, Kevin Pardes made his debut for Utrecht in the final minutes of a 2-1 loss to Groningen. Paredes did well in his six minutes when he hit a nice cross and took a long shot from distance. The former DC United winger/fullback badly needs minutes after seeing injuries limit him the past three seasons at Wolfsburg.

Venezia drew its final preseason game against France’s Brest 2-2 on Saturday. This coming Saturday, Venezia hosts Modena in the Coppa Italia.

Gianluca Busio, 24, is now Venezia’s captain and the club is hoping this is the season when it can survive in Serie A after two previous quick relegations in the top flight since 2021. This year, Venezia has serious financial baking with Tim Leiweke and his daughter Francesca Bodie investing €100 million into the club.

We will see if that pays off, but Busio will play a big role whether they stay up. Against Brest, Venezia hit a terrific free kick for the team’s second goal.

???????????????????????? di Busio contro il Brest ????Portiere immobile e palla sotto l’incrocio ????? #BrestVenezia #DAZN pic.twitter.com/Z9gmT1sndY

Busio is another player who should be in strong contention for the U.S. team despite not being in the mix at all since the start of 2025.

In Norway’s top tier, U.S. U-20 hopeful Gabriel Wesseh scored the game’s only goal for Fredrikstad in a 1-0 away win over IK Start. The former Atlanta United 2 winger moved abroad in hope of playing time and landed with a small Norwegian club in Fredrikstad.

This goal over last-place Start help Fredrikstadt move five points clear of the relegation zone.

Start 0-1 Fredrikstad? 29' Gabriel Wesseh????? Samuel Leach Holm#Eliteserien #Start #FFK pic.twitter.com/1RLH6PfVCw

After his playing time dried up in Chicago, 2022 USMNT World Cup midfielder Kellyn Acosta moved abroad to join Pogon Szczecin in Poland’s Ekstraklasa.

It is still the beginning of the season, but Acosta started the club’s first two games of the season and came off the bench over the weekend in the third game. In this game against Motor Lublin, Acosta scored the team’s final goal of a 3-1 win to move to six points.

Kellyn Acosta’s goal for Pogon Szczecin pic.twitter.com/drMxajrVKP

Antonee Robinson scored for Fulham in a 2-1 preseason friendly loss to Crystal Place (with Chris Richards featuring).

On his 29th birthday, Robinson scored his team’s only goal.

Jedi on the scoresheet. ????? pic.twitter.com/V3aQ54nDtg

At one point, Robinson seemed to be in line for a huge move upward, but as he nears 30, it seems less likely. His reoccurring right knee problems likely make him a risky signing. But he can still do well for a Fulham team that is quietly improving in the Premier League.

LASK is off to a strong start to its defense of its Austrian Bundesliga title with six points from two games. The American duo of Sam Adeniran and George Bello have started and played well in both games. In the opening game, Adeniran scored two goals in a 3-0 win over Grazer. On Saturday, LASK defeated Austria Vienna 2-0 away with Adeniran assisting on the opening goal with a flick-on header from a corner kick. Bello also played well in this game.

LASK is playing well and it will be very interesting to see how they perform against Celtic in the Champions League playoff round. Celtic is the favorite, but LASK could give them problems.

Speaking of Celtic… As expected, Celtic are back to easily defeating Scottish opposition and on Saturday routed Kilmarnock 5-1 while using its all-America central defense duo of Auston Trusty and Cameron Carter-Vickers. Both players had at least 100 touches and Celtic were rarely threatened.

For these players, it is what they can do in Old Firm games, European games, and maybe even Hearts games (who finished second last season).

But with the U.S. national team badly needing to expand is central defense pool, Trusty is likely to stick around and Carter-Vickers might reenter the equation.

In one of the big potential moves for an American player this summer, Monaco is reportedly looking to sell Folarin Balogun and the club wants over $50 million for him. It was reported that Paris St. Germain was sniffing around but the more interest now is coming from the Premier League with Tottenham and Aston Villa rumored to be the teams.

This would be enormous for Balogun as he could then return home. The question is whether ether team would fit his style as a forward. Balogun likely needs a very open game to be at his best where he can run behind defensive lines. That is his strength. He’s not a forward who will create on his own or score in the air. If his landing spot plays to his strengths, he can be very effective at the highest level.

In the Belgian opener, Marlon Fossey went 90 minutes and played well for Standard Liege in a 2-2 draw with Cercle Brugge. Fossey is now the captain of Standard.

Julian Eyestone will reportedly be heading on loan from Brentford to Rotherham United in England’s fourth tier. Eyestone is a potential U.S. Olympic team goalkeeper and has made the first team bench for Brentford in the Premier League but will now look to go to a place where he can finally earn regular minutes.

Understand Julian Eyestone will be announced by Rotherham United very soon, Joe Wildsmith was never a serious option for the Millers hence no tweet from myself regarding him. Alex Bruce only wanted a young Premier League goalkeeper. #rufc

Gaga Slonina continues to not be in a great situation at Chelsea. He actually played the second half of a friendly against Johor Darul Ta'zim of Indonesia and allowed two goals in a draw.

Likely U.S. Olympic team goalkeeper Diego Kochen made one save for Lyngby in a 2-0 loss to Randers in Denmark. The newly promoted team is struggling defensively and has just one point from three games in the Superliga.

The situation in Denmark is also bleak for former U.S. national team hopeful Matthew Hoppe who started for Sonderjyske in a 0-0 draw with Viborg. Hoppe has started all three games for Sonderjyske but does not have a goal and Sonderjyske has just one point.

In Portugal’s opener, Korede Osundina, 22, started and played 66 minutes at right wing for Casa Pia in a 1-0 loss to Maritimo.

It was also the opening weekend of the 2.Bundesliga season and that league has a dwindling number of Americans.

Johann Gomez saw out Eintracht Braunschweig's 6-1 away win over Magdeburg. Gomez came into the game after all goals were scored.

Isaiah Young picked up an assist for Arminia Bielefeld in a 2-1 loss to Karlsruher. The New Jersey native entered the game in the 79th minute and assisted on his team's only goal a minute after entering the game.

John Tolkin remains out for Holstein Kiel and missed its 2-2 draw with Darmstadt.

In Sweden, Ian Hoffmann started at right wingback and played 56 minutes for Mjallby in a 1-0 loss to Elfsborg.

In France's Ligue 2, Mael Corboz started and played 90 minutes for Grenoble in a 4-2 away loss to Dunkerque.
