THE UNITED STATES U-23 national team recently wrapped up its first camp in Arizona with wins over Mexico and Japan. Making the team will be extraordinarily difficult as the roster size is capped at just 18 players, including three overage selections. Competition will be intense to make the team and head coach Marko Mitrovic will have tough decisions to make as he narrows down his roster over the coming months.

Brian Gutierrez, 20, was just one of the 24 players on the roster who was hoping to make a case to be part of Mitrovic’s plans. But what separates Guiterrez from most of the pack is that there are higher expectations on him after he emerged as one of the best young American players in MLS during 2023.

The first camp went well for Gutierrez who started in the 2-1 win over Mexico and then came off the bench for the 4-1 win over Japan. In both games he played as a winger and, in general, the team was more effective during the times Gutierrez was on the field.

“The camp just had all around good vibes from the staff and from my teammates,” Gutierrez told ASN from Arizona. “We just been bonding together and connecting with each other, and I think it's been over on an amazing trip so far.”

“I have played with quite a few of the players before - a lot of the younger guys on the team,” Gutierrez added. “The older guys - I haven’t really played with them much, but we've connected well. We bonded really well with each other. Overall, I think we have a really talented team. I think we in every position, there's so much talent and so much togetherness. And I think if we keep that up, we could have a big Olympic run. “

But entering into the first U-23 camp, Gutierrez knew what to expect as he played under Mitrovic previously when he was an assistant coach on the Chicago Fire when Velko Paunovic was the head coach.

“I've known Marko for quite a while because he was an assistant for the Fire,” Gutierrez said. “We go way back. Obviously he is showing what his game style is. It's been really great working with him again. He's really passionate about what he wants from us.”

“The whole team played great, and everybody played their role in what Marko wanted from each player,” Gutierrez continued. “It was quick trying to learn what he wanted from us is his game plan and his game style. We implemented a lot on the field, and we tried our best to do what he wanted from us and we got a good result that will give us confidence.”

From the camp, Gutierrez made a favorable impression on his teammates. Newcomer Benja Cremaschi, who is just 18 and is playing up an entire U-23 cycle (and who also earned his first USMNT cap in September), spent a lot of time with Cremaschi in training and off the field. The two have similar roles on the team and despite the competition, they have a friendly rapport.

“I know him pretty well and, honestly, I'm with him all the time in these camps,” Cremaschi said. “I've met him before at a previous U-20 camp, and he's an amazing player. The first time I saw him play, he impressed me. I played against him this year. He's done a great job this season and then as a person, he’s funny to be with, funny to be around. He's just a great guy.”

Playing as either a winger or as an attacking midfielder for the Chicago Fire, Gutierrez has nine assists in all competitions (MLS, Open Cup, Leagues Cup) in 2023 and has been one the team’s few bright spots. But now, with Decision Day looming on Sunday, the Fire likely need an away win on Saturday against New York City to secure passage into the playoffs.

“I've I felt more myself this year,” Gutierrez said. “I feel like I've adapted to the league and with the physicality of the league runs and how it plays every day. Throughout the year there was a lot of games this season I've played. I've played one of the most minutes on my team. I've got a lot of information, and I experienced so much things that has helped me as a professional. Overall, I'm more experienced now.”

But his journey to make the U.S. Olympic team also has another level of meaning for the Chicago native. While he was breaking out with the Fire over the past two seasons, he has also been denied the chance to really participate in the international side of the game.

While Gutierrez played well for the U.S. U-20 national team in various camps during the 2023 U-20 World Cup cycle, the Fire denied his release both for the 2022 CONCACAF U-20 Championships where the team qualified for the World Cup and the Olympics. Then in 2023, the Fire again denied his release for the U-20 World Cup.

“Obviously it was a disappointment,” Gutierrez said about not being allowed to participate at the U-20 World Cup. “But I'm just focusing right now on the Olympics, focusing on what's ahead in my future. I'm just excited to be part of this process. I'm looking forward to making the team and showing my best throughout this whole process and trying to fit into the team.”

Gutierrez is now striving to make the Olympic team and he considers it a top priority for him – and he hopes that things will be different in 2024 to obtain his release.

“It means so much to me,” Gutierrez said. “It's a time where you can represent your country and everybody's watching you. Everybody watches the Olympics. I remember growing up watching the Olympics, putting it on and cheering for my country. It's an honor to be able to represent my nation and the city where I'm from.”

Chicago isn’t any good but they’ve been very good for young players recently. I’ve always rated Gutierrez highly. It’s still too bad Chicago didn’t release him for the U-20 WC. I hope they release him for the Olympics, if he’s still there. Good goal herepic.twitter.com/loODnO3PnO

Of course, there is also the possibility that he might not be with the Fire next year anyway. Lately, Chicago has been cashing in on the sale of top young players and the selling of Jhon Duran and Gaga Slonina last winter reportedly saw the Fire bring in north of $30 million for the teenagers.

Gutierrez admits that he thinks about making the move but is more focused on trying to find a way to get Chicago into the playoffs with a big outing this weekend.

“You do tend to think about it, but right now I'm just focusing on finishing the season with Chicago and try and trying to make the playoffs with the Fire,” Gutierrez said. “Honestly, I'm am just focusing on the U-23 camp and the games ahead.”
