For John Tolkin, the start of 2025 began with a call-up to the United States national team for the annual January camp. While this was seen as a chance for him to showcase his ability in front of the new national team head coach, Mauricio Pochettino, he left camp shortly after it began to finalize his transfer to Holstein Kiel in the Bundesliga.

Tolkin, 22, always seemed like a strong candidate within MLS to be sold to a team inside of one of Europe’s big leagues. As a natural left back, the position is typically in high demand for clubs due to limited options. He was also consistently one of the best left backs within the league for several years and was emerging as a candidate for the U.S. national team.

As a product of the New York Red Bulls system, Tolkin surpassed 2000 MLS minutes each of the last four seasons. The 2024 season was his best as he was a key contributor to the team’s run to MLS Cup where it fell to the LA Galaxy. During that season, he also was a starter for the U.S. Olympic team.

After MLS Cup, the time was right for Tolkin to leave but he felt as if the Red Bulls prepared him well for one of the top leagues in the world.

“MLS for sure has prepared me,” Tolkin said. “Especially just Red Bull's playing style has prepared as well. It's high intensity, pressing, a lot of running, playing forward quickly. Holstein Kiel plays the same sort of style. Not only was it a good fit to come here, but also Red Bull prepared me for the higher pace of play. The league itself is very good and I think it needs to get a little bit more credit than it gets, MLS, because I think they prepared me really well to be over here.”

Still, there was a period of adaptation for Tolkin as every game was significant down the stretch for Holstein Kiel as it tried to navigate a path for surviving in the Bundesliga in its first season after promotion.

“If we talk about the football aspect of it, it's very similar to how Red Bull play,” Tolkin said. “I don't think that has been the hardest challenge for me in terms of tactics... MLS with the playoff format, maybe you can get away with losing a few games... You're fighting for survival here. We lived it first-hand. I think that’s the biggest difference but there's nothing better than meaningful games every single week.”

Holstein Kiel was in a relegation battle when Tolkin arrived, but the move still made sense as the club’s interest in the Chatham, New Jersey native was serious for a long time. Sporting director Jan Uphues indicated that the club was monitoring Tolkin for a long time but was only able to complete the deal over this past winter.

“It was both Red Bull and also the national team,” Uphues said of scouting Tolkin. “It started long ago. Obviously, for us, it was not easy to get such a player in the years when we were in the second Bundesliga, to be honest, but we had this idea first last summer. It was not possible for us then, so we were very happy to have the opportunity in winter again.”

“It was a long process for us to see him in the matches because sometimes there are differences in playing style,” Uphues continued. “The style is similar, but not exactly the same. So, for us it's important to have our profile as a player... It started a long time ago when you try to get all the information you can get… At the end it's not only the style of play and the ability to play football. It's more than that. We talk a lot about culture now, but for us it's very important that we have a player who is working hard, who has a high ambition to get to the best level where you can get. At the end it's a picture with many pieces. It started very early, so it started not in winter, we knew him for a longer time.”

Once Tolkin arrived in Germany he began playing immediately. He missed time with two different injuries but played well and earned positive reviews for his performances. He was solid on both sides of the ball and was effective in taking free kicks. Overall, he showed an ability to positively contribute at the Bundesliga level.

“I think maybe the pinch me moment was against Bayern,” Tolkin said. “Obviously, the history behind that club and for it to be my first start here. I remember the coach pulled me into his office and the way we wanted to set up was maybe I was going to play inverted as a six, kind of. I haven't played there in, gosh, I don't know how long, so I was like this should be really interesting. But I had a good showing that game.”

Ultimately, however, it was not enough for Holstein Kiel and the club was relegated in the second to last game of the season following a 2-1 loss to Freiburg. They will finish the season on Saturday against Bayern Munich.

For Tolkin and his teammates, the plan is for a strong season in the 2.Bundesliga next year and a quick return to the top tier.

“With the 2.Bundesliga, maybe there's pressure, but I think we felt real pressure this season,” Tolkin explained. “And pressure can also bring out really good attributes, players, and teams. You saw this club last season the way they handled the pressure to get promoted - going and winning games and grinding games. It starts from the culture and the mentality. That's really where it roots from. When you can look at your teammate on the pitch and know he's going to work his ass for you, you know you're just going to do the same for him - it goes a really long way. The culture is super strong here. I think the team's going to be really solid next year and we'll be fighting for promotion.”

As part of the preparations for the 2.Bundesliga season, Holstein Kiel is now preparing for a camp in the United States which will coincide with a friendly against Minnesota United on July 7 in St. Paul. It will be the German club’s first visit to the United States and one which the front office will be important to the club’s history.

“We always have been to Austria for the training camp, and we knew everything there, but we wanted to do something new,” Uphues said of the trip’s importance. “We wanted to create a new chapter of the club history in summer. So going to the USA is a small piece of creating a whole new chapter of the club history... The club has never been to the states and also a lot of [John's] teammates have not been there. I think it's very exciting to get to feel this culture, to see something new, and, of course, also to have a good training camp.”

As the club’s only American player, Tolkin will be the center of attention both on the field but also within the team as he will get to explain certain elements of the country’s culture, specifically with the team being there for the 4th of July.

“I think the American sports,” Tolkin said of what he is looking forward to the most of Holstein Kiel’s trip to the United States. “I know we have some plans to maybe get to a baseball game, see the Vikings football stadium, so I think that would be a really cool experience for them. Also, the 4th of July is conveniently when we're in preseason, so I could show them a good barbecue and fireworks and all that sort of American tradition on that day, so I'm excited.”

Before all of that takes place, Tolkin hopes that he will be named to the United States national team roster for the Gold Cup in June. That tournament will be an important stage for players to make their case to be part of Mauricio Pochettino’s plans for the World Cup next year. Tolkin played well for the U.S. U-23 team during its recent Olympic cycle and is aware how unique and special it would be to be part of team that will host the sport’s biggest tournament.

"I've had some contact with them," Tolkin said. "I just did this past week. It's been positive and I think in my eyes I've played well enough to have a chance to be on the squad. If I'm able to go and play the two friendlies and then the Gold Cup, that's another really good opportunity. Obviously with the World Cup coming up to finally be under Pochettino for an extended period of time would be awesome."
