THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL team lost to Germany on Saturday 2-1 in Chicago to conclude its pair of tuneups ahead of the 2026 World Cup. Overall, it was not a bad performance from the U.S. team as they played even with Germany for long stretches of the game. Still, the U.S. team and head coach Mauricio Pochettino should be concerned about simple mistakes that cost the team over the last two games and will continue to punish the team in the World Cup if they are not more focused in defensive areas.

Germany opened the scoring in the opening minutes when Kai Havertz headed home a free kick sent into the box by Joshua Kimmich.

The U.S. team pushed forward after conceding the opening goal. In the 37th minute, the equalizer game with an absolute stunning strike from Antonee Robinson when a he volleyed home a clearance from a corner kick from outside the box.

Put this in the Louvre pic.twitter.com/MPwh0C60d6

In the second half, the teams were mostly even but it was Germany that moved ahead for good in the 57th minute on a combination in tight spaces between Leroy Sane and Havertz left Sane with a shot from inside the box. The Galatasaray forward was able to beat Matt Freese with a low shot inside the left post.

For the rest of the game, the U.S. team pushed forward in search of an equalizer. The closest the U.S. team got was a hard shot from Brenden Aaronson that was well-saved by Oliver Baumann.

There is no question that Germany was the better team. Germany is amongst the most talented teams in the world. But the U.S. team was not pinned back in hopes of a goal completely against the run of play.

After so much anticipation and guessing over what Mauricio Pochettino’s lineup would look like for the World Cup, we now likely finally have an answer. The lineup he used against Germany gives the impression that it will either be, or be close, to the lineup we see against Paraguay. The only obvious change is whether Chris Richards returns from his injury, as he is a lock starter if 100% fit.

The lineup was a fluid formation with Alex Freeman and Sergino Dest rotating between a combination right back/right wing in possession and right central defender/right wingback (out of possession). That decision has been building, and the U.S. team has been growing in confidence with it.

But the rest seems to make sense. Tyler Adams. Malik Tillman, and Weston McKennie in central midfield. In terms of formation, it is noteworthy that McKennie played furter up the field in an attacking position than Tillman, who has been used a lot in his career in the No. 10 role. Instead, Tillman was used deeper in possession link the possession into the attack.

Our XI in the Windy City#USMNT x @CocaCola pic.twitter.com/x6ANKdEQia

The front line in the attack was Dest, Folarin Balogun, and Christian Pulisic. While moving Dest more into the attack is something that varies from his traditional role, it is a role that is fluid with Freeman, and it does allow him to play to his strengths of dribbling.

The biggest question mark from Pochettino is at striker and it seems as if Balogun is the top option over Ricardo Pepi. It likely is a tough decision because while Balogun had a great season with Monaco, Pepi has a lot of chemistry with both Dest and Pulisic (as we saw from the Senegal game). Plus, Pepi is more of an aerial threat than Balogun.

That raises the question of how long the leash will be with Balogun or if Pochettino might rotate his lineup throughout the group stage and try to find specific matchups against opponents.

In goal, Matt Freese was no at fault for either of the two German goals and did not make any mistakes. He also made two decent saves along the way. If the tune-up games tell us anything, it is that Freese hasn’t done anything to lose his spot to Matt Turner.

The odd man out of the starting lineup could be Tim Weah who was a sub in both games. Like Aaronson, he brings a lot of energy into the games, but he could be seen as an offensive sub late in games when the U.S. team is pushing for a goal.

When the U.S. team fell behind early, it faced a difficult situation. A sellout crowd, a large television audience, a top five opponent, and a skeptical media. But unlike the March friendlies when the team wilted after facing adversity against good teams, this team responded well. It played on the front foot and drove the attack well.

The equalizer took something truly special, but the U.S. team was getting the majority of corners and touches in the final third.

Flipping for his FIFTH international goal!! JEDI!!!! pic.twitter.com/BP4YJJyShf

At the World Cup, there will be times when the U.S. is facing adversity in the form of a deficit, a red card, or poor playing. If the U.S. team’s response to adversity is the same as it was against Germany, that will be a good sign.

Like any other game, there were players who played well, others who did not, and a few who were in between.

Tim Ream is aging and hasn’t had the best season with Charlotte, but his passing out of the back is instrumental in building possessions and setting up the midfield. Against Germany, many of the team’s better possessions originated with him.

Miles Robinson was mostly at fault in Havertz’s opening goal when he failed to switch-off to pick up his man. He had some positive moments, however, and is probably starts in the middle if Richards cannot go.

Antonee Robinson had a goal for the ages, but was also slow to react on Havertz’s run into the box on the second German goal.

Joe Scally and Sebastian Berhalter were both very good off the bench to help the U.S. team press for an equalizer.

As you would expect, a game against Germany was very physical. From this, the U.S. team held up very well. Aside from Christian Pulisic who was just 5/18 in winning his ground duels, the U.S. team did well in this area. Aerials, however, were in favor of Germany.

But in winning balls in the midfield and forcing turnovers, the U.S. team fought Germany well.

.@tyler_adams14 on today's performance as the squad turns their focus to the FIFA World Cup. pic.twitter.com/Xktwu72RlT

The importance of physical play cannot be overstated as Paraguay, Australia, and Turkey are a group of opponents who play hard and play physical. None of these teams is considered elite with talent, but all have the ability match any opponent with intensity.

The U.S. team needs to clean up turnovers and mistakes. All four of their goals in the tune-ups were preventable with more careful passing, proper positioning, and not losing track of runners.

Pochettino and the team are unlikely to clear things up completely in the week leading up to the Paraguay opener but improving chemistry in the coming days can improve the team in certain situations where the mistakes occur. But expect that to be a big part of the agenda this week.
