THE 2025 MLS SEASON had one more round of games over the weekend before the start of Leagues Cup on Tuesday. It was fun because we actually had a bunch of games on Friday as well, which helped to fill out the weekend. As always, there was lots of good and lots of bad. Let’s break it down.

We’ll start with the bad

You can break down Montreal’s 3-1 win over the New England Revolution with a look at tactics, lineups, specific performances from players, etc. But that would be missing the point. This was a matchup between two of the worst teams in the league.

With the Revs losing at home, they now have just one win in 14 games (including one Open Cup game). This was supposed to be the year for Caleb Porter to make progress because he was able to bring in many players he wanted. But the team is getting worse. What was striking is that the body language among the Revolution players wasn’t good. They were frustrated and confused.

Montreal is still a bad team, despite this win, but the team recently addressed the fans promising to do better.

Letter to the fans from Gabriel, Luca and Simone.#CFMTL pic.twitter.com/RrZ51mchjH

What now happens with the Revolution. The Leagues Cup break at least gives them a chance to do some soul-searching, because an host take is that this team isn’t going to make a run at Leagues Cup. But what happens this weekend in New England when they report to work on Monday? What’s the plan to be better?

I asked Caleb Porter to comment on how much pressure he feels when fans have been calling for his job the last 2 home games. Attached is his response:#NERevs | #MLS pic.twitter.com/9auahpqjqn

Columbus is not an easy place to win. It’s even harder when trailing in the second half. But Orlando got back into the game with two goals from Ramiro Enrique, who only subbed into the game in the 67th minute. His two goals in quick succession (both assisted by Ivan Angulo) put Orlando up 2-1. Orlando then put the nail in the coffin with another late goal from Martin Ojeda, which was assisted by USMNT right back Alex Freeman.

Really impressive win for Orlando in Columbus. Trailing 1-0, Orlando gets goals in the 76th, 79th, and this goal in stoppage for a 3-1 win.- #USMNT fullback Alex Freeman gets the assist here pic.twitter.com/0ldlRWQmqh

Columbus is a good team, but this is a team that is not as talented as in years past when they had Aidan Morris and Cucho Hernandez. The problem is that there is a thin line for error and if anything is off, they’re vulnerable. That was the case in this game when the Crew squandered a bunch of chances.

“Obviously, I'm not happy with this one – really not happy because this is not us,” said Crew coach Wilfried Nancy, We deserved it because collectively, we had many opportunities; and collectively, we should have defended better; but we didn't do it and we got punished against a team that they do it well like this.”

The thing to watch with Columbus moving forward is the addition of new DP forward Wessam Abou Ali, and U-22 initiative winger Hugo Picard. To help make room, Columbus sold Aziel Jackson to Jagiellonia Bialystok in Poland. Columbus needs more firepower, and we will see if this does the trick.

For Orlando, it’s about finding lineups and tactics that work from the start, not just at the end. It’s a team that misses Duncan McGuire.

For a moment, Osaze DeRosario looked to have given Seattle a 2-1 away win over Atlanta United with a stoppage time header. But in the ninth minute of stoppage, time Atlanta United equalized with a goal from Aleksey Miranchuk, who seemingly did not celebrate. The game ended 2-2.

For Atlanta, a point is meaningless. They are essentially heading into Leagues Cup with their playoff hopes over. That’s hard to do in this league. For them, getting rid of players is better than adding them because if they’re going to rebuild, they need a clean slate. On Monday, they bought out defender Luis Abram – who was poor for Atlanta.

Like father, like son. ????Osaze De Rosario scores a potential game-winner in stoppage time for @SoundersFC. pic.twitter.com/wlSWCpzrji

As for how this rebuild will look while Garth Lagerwey fights cancer, who knows? That is the big question. But cleaning house is more important than what happens in games in 2025.

As for Seattle, the team is inconsistent and haven’t been able to beat anyone good in months. They’re good at winning games they should (home against San Jose, Dallas, and Kansas City) but teams that go on playoff runs win games that impress. That hasn’t been Seattle. Seattle is dealing with injuries and the existing players are tired. The Leagues Cup is coming at the right time and a quick exit might not shed too many tears within the organization – who are hoping Jordan Morris, Paul Rothrock, Stephan Frei, and Joao Paulo get healthy.

By now, everyone knows what happened with Lionel Messi and Jordi Alba. They bailed on the All Star Game and by rules, They had to sit out the next game for Miami. If it was against most teams, that would be okay. But Messi and Alba missing Miami’s home game vs. Cincinnati was disappointing because it was arguably the two best teams in the East.

The game ended 0-0. Miami had the better of chances and Cincinnati was helped a lot by Roman Celentano making a few big saves. Miami also kept Evander in check, which was impressive.

Rodrigo De Paul is on his way, Messi and Alba will be back. If Miami can defend, they’ll be in great shape. Cincinnati will be fine too. This game was just disappointing.

Vancouver should have beaten Sporting KC this weekend, but it’s not always easy being the favorite. This time, it was as the Caps didn’t play down to the level of their opponent and instead easily beat SKC 3-0. From an American perspective, it was another good showing from USMNT midfielder Sebastian Berhalter who created a load of chances and assisted on the final goal. Emmanuel Sabbi opened the scoring early and set the tone.

Laborda towers over the defence & heads ‘er home! ???????? https://t.co/WPDMz27gWT #VWFC | #VANvSKC pic.twitter.com/zszyl5nV2V

Yes, while Ranko Veselinovi? is out with an ACL, Vancouver should be okay. They are expecting to get Ryan Gauld back before the end of the season and if he fits back into the team well under a team that has come a long way without him, they’ll be in great shape to finish in the top four (they still have the best Points Per Game ratio in the West).

As for Sporting, they are six points out of the playoffs but just have too many question marks. I don’t see them making it.

San Diego remained atop the Western Conference with an impressive 1-0 win over a Nashville team that had disappointing performance. A 52nd minute goal from Chucky Lozano is all they needed.

One of the interesting things about San Diego is how it is acquiring U.S. youth internationals at a furious pace. As a club part of the Right to Dream network, development is key. But San Diego isn’t waiting until its academy is fully functional. It is going throughout the league and abroad and acquiring young players – and playing them.

Luca Bombino has been a standout at left back and he was brought in from LAFC on loan with an option to buy that is a no brainer. Oscar Verhoeven is the right back, and he came from San Jose on loan with an option. Aidan Harangi was just brought in from Eintracht Frankfurt on loan. David Vazquez was just brought in from Philadelphia, and the plan is to play him. Pedro Soma is also on his way from Cornellia in Spain.

Roster News We've acquired midfielder ???????????????????? ???????????????? from Spain’s UE Cornellà. Welcome to America's Finest City, Pedro. pic.twitter.com/IDGTJoE15J

San Diego wants to put young players in the spotlight, but they also have to find a balance of winning. It doesn’t work to play and sell young players if you don’t win. It hasn’t helped New England or Chicago much that they have developed and sold a lot of players. The fact that they have continued to lose only makes their fans frustrated and disinterested. Philadelphia, on the other hand, has only benefited from this philosophy because they have done well.

San Diego is off to a good start. The likelihood is that they release any player selected to play in the U-20 World Cup. That will increase their value and that is the end goal.

The fact they are in first place is what makes it all work.

Philadelphia looked sharp in their 3-1 win over Colorado. They are the only team that has a 2 point per game average. They’re fun to watch with an entertaining style but they might run into problems in the playoffs when results often come down to high-end designated players. As for Colorado, a win in Philly was always unlikely but their playoff chances are going to be a nail-biter. They currently hold the last spot.

Mikael Uhre off to the races and scores his second on the night????#DOOP | ???? 3-1 ????? pic.twitter.com/7uoLon9T95

The New York Red Bulls have won just once since May and deserve to have been passed by Chicago for the last playoff spot. The Fire got past the Red Bulls with a 1-0 result on Saturday night. The Red Bulls are too reliant on an always injured player in Lewis Morgan.

Charlotte got past a woeful Toronto 2-0 to move into seventh place. They have actually improved since the sale of Patrick Agyemang.

Portland posted an impressive 1-0 win over LAFC, who suddenly face a lot of questions. Aaron Long is out. Club America want Denis Bouanga – which would leave LAFC with no DP’s. There are rumors Son Heung-Min is being targeted, but how quickly could that happen? The club has a lot to figure out during Leagues Cup.

NYCFC defeated a bad Dallas team 4-3 in Texas and the big takeaway is that NYCFC’s new DP Nicolás Fernández Mercau looked solid. That should put the club into position to make a good playoff push.

Real Salt Lake is on the way up with a 2-1 win over San Jose. They now have four wins in five games to move into eighth place. The question is whether they keep Diego Luna. If so, I think they’ll make the playoffs. If not, then no. As for San Jose, they’re fading back to reality. It’s been a big step forward under Bruce Arena, but the playoffs might be a bridge too far.

Austin defeated DC United 4-2 to remain in the playoff picture and looking strong. DC United, meanwhile, is trying to avoid the Wooden Spoon.

Also in the Spoon race is St. Louis, which fell to Minnesota 2-1 and has shown no improvement since firing Olaf Mellberg.
