THE WEEKEND FOR AMERICANS abroad saw some good, some bad, and a whole lot of in-between. In fact, the performances in just the Eredivisie alone showed that. But we saw Tyler Adams continue to make progress and Caleb Wiley return to the field after an injury.

The Championship was also up and down as Brenden Aaronson and Haji Wright were also in top form, with both scoring. On the other end, Josh Sargent had the most important update of the weekend - and it wasn't good. On Monday, it was announced by Norwich that Sargent would have to undergo surgery to fix a muscle injury in his groin. It's a blow to the USMNT (that will keep him out for November) but it is a bigger problem for Norwich which is falling behind in the promotion race.

???? On Sargent…"He is going to require surgery, so we're looking at eight weeks. It's not the ideal scenario for anybody. We have options and possibilities for other players to come in."

With all of that said, here is a detailed breakdown.

Christian Pulisic played 89 minutes for Milan on Saturday in a 1-0 away win over lowly 18th-place Monza in Northern Italy. Pulisic was recovering from the flue which limited his minutes in a midweek loss to Napoli. He returned to playing the No. 10 position and he responded with 30/31 passing and four drawn fouls to give his team set pieces, the most dangerous came when Pulisic was fouled just outside box in the 13th minute. He was effective in his ground duels, winning 7/13 of his chances.

Pulisic had a hand in the goal that was scored in the 43rd minute by Tijjani Reijnders. On the play Pulisic chipped the ball into the box for Morata and it eventually fell to Reijnders for the score.

Overall, just another good performance from Pulisic in a win that sent Milan to seventh place.

Yunus Musah was limited to just time-wasting minutes when he replaced Pulisic in the 89th minute.

Staying in Northern Italy, Juventus travelled to Udinese on Saturday and came away with a solid 2-0 win to move into fifth place (after two consecutive draws saw them slip). Both goals were scored in the first half. Tim Weah started and played 87 minutes at right wing while Weston McKennie came into the game in the 70th minute.

Weah, 24, was a healthy 24/27 with his passing. He wasn't directly involved with too many chances, but his running and movement did help to open the game. In the 69th minute, he helped to spring a counterattack with Vlahovic. Then in the 63rd minute, he made a nice move to get past his defender but his cross came up empty.

As for the 20-minute shift from Mckennie, it was very quiet. He had 10 touches, was 5/9 in passing, but wasn't part of anything dangerous offensively. He did help see out the win in a minor role.

Venezia remained in last place of Serie A following Sunday's 1-0 away loss to Inter Milan. Despite the result, the performance wasn't bad from Venezia as they held together well against an elite opponent. Gianluca Busio was on the bench but came into the game to start the second half.

Busio, 23, nearly made a big impact minutes after coming into the game when he got into the box and aimed to set up Kofod Andersen whose shot was deflected.

Busio had 28 touches and was 15/20 in passing. He completed 3/3 of his dribbles, and was 4/5 in his ground duels. He also drew two fouls as he handled the physical side of the game well, despite that typically being the weaker part of his game.

A loss is a loss, but performances like this will typically result in Serie A wins and Busio's outing was enough to suggest he should return to the starting lineup.

In Serie B, Palermo fell to 8th place following a heartbreaking 1-0 loss at home to Cittadella where the conceded the winning goal in stoppage time. USMNT left back Kristoffer Lund has seen his minutes on the decline in recent weeks as he hasn't been starting. It is something that he needs to fix if he wants to remain a constant part of the USMNT.

In this game, Lund played 25 minutes and got on the ball a lot. He played six balls into the final third, but nothing dangerous resulted in it. The winning goal from Cittadella came from his side of the field, although he was not marking the scorer who scored with a shot to the near post.

Overall, a tough season for Lund continues where he is not standing out and is deemed as replaceable in the starting lineup.

Andrija Novakovich, 28, had his best game in a long time (probably the last several seasons) when he came off the bench to start the second half and scored a goal and added an assist for Bari in a 2-2 draw at home against Reggiana.

The game was 0-0 when Novakovich entered the game and he assisted in the 53rd and scored in the 56th minute.

Novakovich's assist came off a counter attack when he had the ball in the box and played it back across the goal to Ahmad Benali. His goal came off typical Route 1 soccer that started with a long goal kick and eventually was played up the field out wide. Novakovich got on the end of a perfect low cross to set him up at the far post.

Unfortunately for Bari, they collapsed late when the conceded two goals to settle for a draw, their fifth draw in a row that has moved them out of the top third and into midtable at 10th place.

Folarin Balogun is doing light training in his return from a separated shoulder, but Monaco missed him on Monday in a 1-0 loss at home to a relegation battling Angers. Monaco has now lost two in a row and Balogun’s absence is playing a role. Monaco remains in second place but are now six points behind PSG.

Caleb Wiley returned from knee tendonitis and played the final minutes of stoppage time for Strasbourg in a 2-0 away loss to St. Etienne on Saturday. Strasbourg fell to ninth in the loss. This was his first action since the USMNT draw with New Zealand on September 10 and his first game for Strasbourg since August 30.

Le Havre snapped a six-game losing streak with a 1-0 win over last place Montpellier on Saturday. Emmanuel Sabbi, 26, came into the game in the 63rd minute for Le Havre and was on the field for the decisive goal, a penalty after a Montpellier handball. Sabbi had only three completed passes over 10 touches, but he was dangerous. He had a dangerous cross about 10 minutes after coming into the game. Then in the 90th minute, he had a point blank shot saved that should have been the team’s second goal.

Despite the win, Le Havre remains second from the bottom in Ligue 1.

Tanner Tessmann has shown promise in recent games but was an unused substitute for Lyon on Friday in a 1-1 draw away at Lille. Lyon remained in sixth place with the result.

Mark Mckenzie got the start on the left side of a three-man backline for Toulouse, which defeated Reims 1-0 for its second clean sheet win in a row. Toulouse now has 265 minute stretch where they haven’t conceded.

In this game, McKenzie did not push forward much and he only had three touches in the Reims half. But he did have nine clearances and was 2/2 in his tackles to contribute a lot on the defensive end. McKenzie is starting to settle in very nicely into Ligue 1 after playing in Belgium and MLS before this. Athletically and physically, he is well suited in this league and Toulouse is benefitting from it. The club has climbed to 11th place after a poor start.

American-born manager Fabian Hurzeler ripped into his Brighton team following Saturday's 2-1 loss away to Liverpool. Brighton had a 1-0 lead into the 70th minute but was unable to hold on for the upset, or even the draw against the Premier League leaders. Brighton & Hove Albion fell to eighth place with the loss.

Tyler Adams and Bournemouth managed to pull off a huge upset in defeating Manchester City 2-1. It was the first loss of the season for City. Bournemouth moved to ninth place and is on a tremendous roll, with a win over Arsenal, a draw away to Aston Villa, and now a win over Manchester City.

Adams came into the game in the 66th minute, just two minutes after Bournemouth took a 2-0 lead. Stats-wise, Adams didn't do much with 14 touches, 5/8 passing, and 1/3 on ground duels. But he was strong positionally in his defense and was able to help the club see out the win.

For Adams, the win was a great moment but he is still at a point where he is getting back into the regular swing of playing and staying healthy over the matter of months is the measure of not only success, but his viability of a professional at the highest levels. Playing in two straight games for Bournemouth is a good start to a long journey.

Crystal Palace was lucky to escape last-place Wolves with a 2-2 draw on Saturday, and Palace now sits just two points out of the relegation zone. Matt Turner was the backup keeper for Palace and watched. Chris Richards remains out injured but could be back later in the month.

Antonee Robinson and Fulham host Brentford on Monday.

Three games ago, Coventry City was even on points for the bottom three of the Championship. But Haji Wright has played a massive role in the club’s recent push to move all the way into 13th place. Last week, Wright as solid all around and had the stoppage time winner in a 3-2 victory over Luton Town. This past Saturday, Wright had a goal and an assist in a 3-0 romp over a Middlesbrough team that was reduced to 10 men in the 22nd minute.

Wright made it 2-0 in the 76th minute when he made a far post run and easily finished a low cross from close range. Then in the 81st minute, Wright assisted Josh Eccles with a through-ball that set up a finish from inside the box.

Sealed with a kiss. ???? pic.twitter.com/5gqFtH57DW

It wasn’t the most challenging of games for Wright, but he is a handful in the Championship where he thrives in a environment where athleticism and physical play is valued.

Aidan Morris went 90 minutes for Boro in the loss and while he wasn’t good (and he’s typically been very good this year), he was limited when his central midfield partner Hayden Hackney was sent off. Boro fell to 11th place with the loss.

Brenden Aaronson again continues to endear himself to the Leeds United supporters who were so critical of him at the end of the 2022/23 season when Leeds were relegated out of the Premier League and Aaronson was then sent on loan to Union Berlin. He has been very good in his return and on Saturday, he scored his fourth goal of the season to give Leeds United a 3-0 lead over Plymouth Argyle in the 38th minute. That would turn out to be the game’s final goal.

???? "And Aaronson saw his opportunity!" pic.twitter.com/fJwfMmVc7S

The Medford, NJ native ended up playing 66 minutes in a free-ranging attacking midfield role and completed an impressive 26/27 of his passes. He also created two very good chances. The first in the 10th minute when his cross set up a header for Junior Firpo, which was saved. Then in the 65th, he hit a through-ball which set up Wilfried Gnonto, whose shot missed the target.

Aaronson is playing well and he is helping Leeds look like a very strong promotion contender, as they sit second after 13 games, three points behind leaders Sunderland.

Lynden Gooch continues to be sidelined with a knee injury for 16th place Stoke city, which defeated Derby County 2-1 on Saturday.

Josh Sargent missed Norwich's 2-1 loss on Saturday to a suddenly improved Cardiff City, which was a laughingstock to start the season but now is playing at a strong level. Ethan Horvath sat and watched Cardiff's win as their backup keeper. Norwich fell to 11th place while Cardiff City now sits 17th in the English second tier.

Four days shy of his 30th birthday, Duane Holmes played the final 23 minutes for Preston North End in a 3-1 loss at home to Bristol City on Saturday. Preston North End sits 20th place in the Championship.

Jordan Pefok got the start for Union Berlin on Saturday in a 3-0 loss away to leaders Bayern Munich. Pefok, 28, had two shots and his right footed effort from inside the box in the 32nd minute forced a nice save. He was eventually subbed out in the 60th minute. Despite some positive moments, Pefok is still yet to score for 7th place Union this season in any competition. He has now played a total of 459 minutes in the Bundesliga and another 170 in the DFB Pokal.

Timmy Chandler, 34, made a rare appearance for Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday, playing the final 17 minutes plus stoppage time of a 7-2 blowout win over a last-place Bochum team that has one point from nine games. This was his first Bundesliga appearance of the season. All the goals were scored when Chandler came into the game. Eintracht moved into third place with the win.

Kevin Paredes remained sidelined for Wolfsburg and missed a 1-1 draw with Augsburg on Saturday. The recent Olympic winger hasn't played since August. Wolfsburg disappointing start continued as the draw saw them end the weekend in 14th place.

Lennard Maloney missed Heidenheim's 1-0 loss away to Holstein Kiel on Saturday with an ambiguous "knock." Heidenheim now has just one point from its last four Bundesliga games to fall to 12th place. The squad surely expected more in a matchup with newly promoted Holstein Kiel, which one its first game of the season.

Fresh off making his first team debut last weekend for Borussia Dortmund in the Bundesliga during a loss to Augsburg, then again with an appearance in DFB Pokal in a loss to Wolfsburg, top American teenage winger Cole Campbell went as an unused substitute in Saturday's big 2-1 win over second place RB Leipzig. Gio Reyna remained out injured for Dortmund. BVB moved into fifth place with the win.

Joe Scally went 90 minutes for Borussia Monchengladbach on Sunday in a 4-1 win over Werder Bremen. It was a steady outing for the Long Island native who didn't stand out much, but who also did not make any significant errors. He was on the ball a lot with 70 touches to help M'Gladbach control the game. M'Gladbach now has two wins and a draw over their last three games to move into ninth place.

Pass war on point @jjscally_10 ????#dieFohlen #BMGSVW 3:0 pic.twitter.com/odoa84dnyF

Pellegrino Matarazzo's Hoffenheim squad fell back into the bottom three of the Bundesliga following an ugly 2-0 loss at home to newly promoted St. Pauli. This is a loss that could make Matarazzo's seat suddenly hot as the team has had a wave of poor results over the last two months, with only a win over Bochum three weeks ago serving as the only good result.

It was a disaster on Saturday for Julian Green and Greuther Furth, which lost 5-1 at home to Darmstadt to fall to 13th place. Green played 78 minutes while recent U.S. Olympic team defender/midfielder Max Dietz missed the game for Furth due to a hamstring injury. Green had four shots, including a nice one from distance in the 8th minute that was saved. But it was a bad day for everyone on Furth.

Damion Downs, 19, played the final 22 minutes for Cologne in a 1-0 win over Hertha BSC on Saturday. The win moved Cologne into 11th place. Downs didn't do much, he was 0/3 in passing and missed his only shot on goal. He is having a nice season, but is getting his legs back after missing last week's game with an illness.

John Brooks missed the game for 8th place Hertha, but he could be ready to return to the field this month.

After playing 90 minutes in a tough 1-0 midweek loss to Werder Bremen in the DFB Pokal, Santiago Castaneda had a strong 90 minutes on Saturday for Paderborn in a 0-0 draw with Eintracht Braunschweig. Castaneda, 19, was effective in his duel winning (5/6 in ground duels, 3/5 in aerials), he drew two fouls, was 3/3 in tackles, made six clearances, was 37/45 in passing (including seven passes into the final third), and had 70 total touches. He continues to make big strides this year in the 2.Bundesliga, and Parderborn continues to be a promotion contender. The draw saw them finish the weekend in second place.

Johan Gomez went 80 minutes for Eintracht Braunschweig, which sits 17th in the 18 team second tier. Aside from being part of two dangerous chances, there wasn't much to report on Gomez's performances.

It was a day to forget for PSV Eindhoven which lost its first game of the season, 3-2 away to bitter rivals Ajax. The result was made worse in that the winning goal from Ajax was the result of a mistake made by Malik Tillman who caved under pressure possessing the ball deep inside his own half, hit a weak ball that was intercepted by Ajax's Mika Godts for an easy goal.

Tillman deserves a majority of the blame but not all of it. He received the ball in a difficult position when there was plenty of opportunities from his team to simply clear the ball up field. Tillmann could have and should have done better. But the tactics of playing the ball out of the back at all costs presents risks that make these types of mistakes somewhat common.

Even aside from the mistake, Tillman did not play well in this game and it was one of the few times he has struggled. The problem for him is that mistakes against Ajax will get magnified as it is one of the few times in Eredivisie games where PSV is challenged.

Ricardo Pepi came into the game in the 81st minute and created a chance when he linked up with Luuk de Jong.

PSV remains five points clear in first place in the Eredivisie at 30 points. Ajax and Utrecht are even on 25 points for second place.

Staying with Utrecht, Paxten Aaronson had another strong performance in a 4-1 away win over Sparta Rotterdam to help Utrecht remain even on points for second place. The American scored the team's third goal in the 88th minute for a 3-0 lead. The lopsided score didn't accurately reflect that this game was close at 1-0 heading into the 85th minute before Utrecht pulled away.

On Aaronson's goal, his role in the build-up was more impressive than the finish. He took the ball in midfield and weaved through Sparta's defense before playing a combination and then getting on the result of a final pass close to the goal.

Overall, it was a strong game for Aaronson who was on the ball a lot with 59 touches in 90 minutes. He was direct with his play and was constantly looking to make things happen. He now has three goals and an assist on the season.

Taylor Booth also started for Utrecht, but the Utah native didn't take advantage of his opportunity as he was pulled at the half. He finished with 19 touches and was just 4/6 in passing in what was a quiet outing.

In the second tier Eerste Divisie, left back John Hilton and winger Korede Osundina both started for sixth place Dordrecht in a 4-1 loss away to fourth place De Graafschap. It was the second loss in a row for Dordrecht. Also in the Eerste Divisie, Zach Booth missed second place Excelsior's 1-0 away win over Helmond Sport on Saturday.

On Friday, seventh place Westerlo posted a convincing 2-0 win over ninth place Dender to snap a two-game losing streak. Griffin Yow started at right wing for Westerlo and played 62 minutes while Bryan Reynolds played the whole game at right back in the win.

After dealing with an injury earlier in the season, Yow is getting his form back and had a busy outing. He had 40 touches and was very direct with his approach (as is typical), before he was subbed out in the 62nd minute.

Reynolds, meanwhile, has been playing very well for Westerlo and is in a good run of form. That continued in this game where he went 90 minutes at right back and he was good on both sides of the ball.

Staying in the First Division, Marlon Fossey also had a good game for Standard Liege in a 2-1 win over St. Truiden. The USMNT right back came out of the game on the front foot, setting up a pair of chances early. In the fifth minute, he created a chance for Isaac Price and then a minute later he tee'd up Dennis Eckert Ayensa. Both chances were missed. In the 25th minute, Fossey missed a chance of his own after a header went wide. Defensively, he had 10 clearances and held his ground. Overall, it was a very good outing for Fossey as his stock continues to rise. On the flip side, St. Truiden's American forward Kahveh Zahiroleslam was subbed out in the 61st minute due to being ineffective. A likely relegation battle lies ahead for St. Truiden which is even on points for second from the bottom.

In the top tier of Denmark, Jose Gallegos played the last nine minutes for SonderjyskE in an ugly 4-1 loss at home to Randers. SonderjyskE sits 10th in the 12-team league.

Milan Iloski played the last 20 minutes for sixth-place Nordsjaelland in a 2-1 win over Viborg. Iloski's outing was quiet as he helped to see out the win.

Justin Che made his first appearance since March when he played the final few minutes (entered in the 89th minute) for fifth-place Brondby in a stunning 5-1 away win over league leaders Midtjylland. Che is on his way back from a long-term injury. These were just token minutes; it will be interesting to see if he goes on another loan this winter.

Jonathan Amon played 86 minutes for Lyngby in a 2-1 loss to AGF Aarhus. The reports were that Amon played well despite the defeat. Lyngby remained second from the bottom with the loss and could use more from Amon in they enter a relegation battle ahead.

Andres Jasson was not in the squad for Aalborg in a disappointing 3-3 draw at home with last place Vejle Boldklubb.

Johnny Cardoso had a steady performance on Sunday for Real Betis in a solid 1-1 away draw against fifth-place Athletic Bilbao. The USMNT central midfielder didn't stand out much, but he also competently did his job with no mistakes.

The New Jersey-born midfielder has been in positive form to start this season and it will be interesting to see if he can finally translate his club success to the USMNT under Mauricio Pochettino. That has been a struggle for him thus far in his career, although he is still young.

Luca de la Torre is not expected to play for Celta Vigo against Getafe on Monday.

Alex Mendez was not in the squad for Club Juarez in a 2-1 away win over Queretaro.

It was all Club America on Friday in a 5-0 away win over Mazatlán. Alex Zendejas played 58 minutes and assisted on Club America's third goal. While Brian Rodriguez received credit for scoring the goal, it was Zendejas who did most of the work.

BRIAN RODRÍGUEZ ???????????????? pic.twitter.com/gJH4x5FRXz

Also of note, Ventura Alvarado was an unused substitute for Mazatlan.

Joe Corona started but was pulled at the half for Tijuana in a 3-0 loss to Tigres at home. The score was 1-0 when Corona left the game.

Frankie Amaya played the final 31 minutes for Toluca in a 2-2 draw with Leon on Saturday. It was a very impressive outing for Amaya who played well, and assisted on the 87th minute equalizer, about five minutes after Toluca was reduced to 10 men.

The pass was a very nice cross from the left side delivered by the former New York Red Bull midfielder.

Paulinho bisou e resgatou um empate para o Toluca em inferioridade numérica.12 golos em 15 jogos no campeonato mexicano ????pic.twitter.com/fQyEV4kk7v

Despite the draw, Toluca remained in second place of Liga MX.

Cade Cowell started and played 71 minutes for Chivas in a 0-0 draw at home with Pumas. The 2023 U.S. U-20 World Cup winger was not able to get much going in this game. The closest he came was a 13th minute shot from the left side which forced a save. Chivas ended the weekend in ninth place.

Brandon Vazquez played the final 15 minutes for Monterrey in a 4-0 win over Atlas. It was a quiet performance from Vazquez as all the scoring took place before he came into the game and the intensity had been dialed back. Monterrey now sit fourth.

Finally, former U.S. U-20 midfielder Fernando Arce, Jr. played the entire game for 12th place Necaxa in a brutal 6-2 loss away to Pachuca on Saturday.

In the Austrian Budesliga, Quincy Butler scored the winning goal for WSG Tirol over RSC Altach, in a matchup between teams in the bottom three of the league. The goal was a nice weaving run into the box and a quality finish. It was his third goal of the season in 827 minutes. The former Sacramento Republic winger is settling nicely into his club.

Similarly, George Bello had had a strong outing for ninth-place LASK in a 1-1 draw with Harberg on Saturday. The former Atlanta United left back was on the ball a lot with 87 touches and he won nearly all of his duels in what was a complete performances.

In the Swiss Super League, Konrad de la Fuente played the final 31 minutes for Lausanne in a 1-0 win over Servette. It was Lausanne's fourth win in a row in the Super League after a tough start to the season. They now sit in sixth place. De la Fuente was aggressive in attacking during his shift, but he missed a close shot in the 88th minute that should have doubled Lausanne's lead.

In the Scottish League's Cup, Celtic demolished Aberdeen 6-0 at Hampden Park. Cameron Carter-Vickers scored the opening goal with a nice header and he was partnered with Auston Trusty in central defense in the convincing win. Aberdeen is overachieving in the Premiership right now and their attention is likely on those games.

In Argentina's Primera, Newell's Old Boys dropped a 2-0 decision away to Union and fell to 26th place in the 28-team league. Matko Miljevic played the full 90 in the loss. Alan Sonora started but was pulled at halftime for second-place Huracan in 0-0 draw with Gimnasia La Plata.

In Uruguay's Primera, Mattias Fracchia played all 90 minutes at left back for Danubio in a thrilling, 1-0 win over Miramar Misiones that featured a last-minute winner. Danubio sits fourth after 10 rounds but has only conceded four goals. Also in Uruguay, Agustin Anello played the last 25 minutes for third-place Boston River in a 3-0 win over Cerro Largo.

In the League of Ireland, Galway United played Bohemians to a 1-1 draw on Friday in what was the final matchday of the season. Patrick Hickey ended the season in strong form and assisted on the team's only goal. He ended the season with five goals and five assists in all competitions for Galway United, which finished in fifth place under Bronx-born head coach John Caufield. American midfielder Vince Borden played the final 13 minutes for Galway.

In Norway's Eliteserien, Christian Cappis entered the game for Viking in the 40th minute as part of a triple substitution with his team struggling and trailing Sanderfjord 2-1 at home. The changes made a big difference as Viking ended up coming back and winning 3-2. Cappis played very well in central midfield, completing 24/27 of his passes to elevate Viking's level. With the win, Viking moved into third place with three games remaining.

Also in the Eliteserien, Adam Saldana was an unused substitute for KFUM Oslo in a 2-1 loss to Sarpsborg.

In Slovakia's Superliga, Zyen Jones played the last 10 minutes for 5tth place FC Kosice in a 0-0 draw with Trencin. Forward Eduvie Ikoba was subbed out in the 41st minute due to injury as his Zemplin Michalovce fell to FC Spartak Trnava 3-1 on Sunday. Ikoba's team was ahead 1-0 when he was subbed out. With the loss Zemplin Michalovce fell to ninth place in the 10-team league.

In Poland's Ekstraklassa, Lech Poznan saw their lead atop the table reduced to just goal differential following a 2-0 loss to Puszcza Niepolomice on Saturday. Ian Hoffmann was not in the squad for Lech Poznan. Meanwhile, Korona Kielce moved to 13th place after a 2-1 away win over GKS Katowice. Former Phoenix Rising attacking midfielder Danny Trejo played the last 16 minutes in the win.

In Latvia, Jordan Bender was an unused substitute for FK Metta in a 4-0 loss to Riga on Sunday. Just one week remains in Lativa and Metta has already ensured their survival in the top flight.

In Greece, Johann Gomez was not in the squad for PAOK and Erik Palmer-Brown wasn't in the squad for Panathinaikos. Both teams won.

In England's third tier League One, Barnsley moved into seventh place with a 2-0 win over Shrewsbury. Gaga Slonina remains benched for Barnsley. Donovan Pines, however, went a full 90 in the win. Also in League One, Charlie Kelman went 63 minutes for Leyton Orient in a 3-0 loss to Wycombe Wanderers. Leyton Orient are on the verge of falling into the relegation zone.
