THE EUROPEAN SEASON only has a few more weeks and there were a ton of midweek games for Americans abroad. Some performances were good, some were not – but most all played a part in games that will have implications in the stretch run of the season – whether it be for promotion, relegation, European qualification, or championships.

Here was my notebook on the midweek that was

Daryl Dike, 20, is becoming a sensation with Barnsley and on Wednesday the forward scored a dramatic overhead kick to deliver a 1-0 win over Huddersfield. For the U.S. international from Oklahoma, it was his ninth goal in just 1100 minutes since joining the club in February. He has been the catalyst for the club’s rise from midtable and into the playoff positions.

In this game, he came on seconds before halftime and had 24 touches in the final 45. He is a player who is just very difficult to contain and coming off the bench is especially difficult. After 45 minutes, defenders are set playing one way. Dike presents a completely different challenge for defenders and adjustment is tough.

In this game, Huddersfield gave Dike an opportunity for a high difficulty finish – and he took advantage.

?????? GOAL-CAM ??????Starting to wonder if there's anything this kid from Oklahoma cannot do? @DarylDike with the ingenious finish last night ???? pic.twitter.com/3JDlNNE2pl

With the win, Barnsley now is in sixth place (the final playoff spot) but has a six-point lead on 7th-place Reading. For now, Norwich has clinched promotion and Watford is close. The current teams in the four playoff positions are likely the teams that will be in the tournament. But just three points separate 3rd place AFC Brournemouth and Barnsley.

Dike is essentially going to the playoffs and it will be a huge opportunity for him.

AFC Bournemouth is playing the best soccer in the Championship. If the playoffs were right now, they’d be the favorites. Instead, there should be a concern if they are peaking too early. On Wednesday, Bournemouth defeated Millwall for their 11th win in a row.

Carter-Vickers, 23, is finally thriving while with the chance to finally play for a promotional contender in his sixth different loan within the second tier of England.

Cameron Carter-Vickers: Raw # for Bournemouth in 4-1 win vs. Millwall90 mins69 touches0 shots0 key passes53/62 passing4/7 long balls2/4 duels won4 clearances0 fouls0x fouled2/4 aerials won1 interception- 7th win in a row for CCV & Bournemouth. Playoffs approaching

It's all about placement for Carter-Vickers and Bournemouth and if the playoff started today, Bournemouth would be facing Dike and Barnsley.

The first few months of 2021 were not kind for Gio Reyna who struggled for Borussia Dortmund after Lucien Favre was fired. Over the past month, he’s been great and has been on the top of his game.

On Wednesday, the U.S. national team midfielder started for Dortmund in a 2-0 win over Union Berlin. While he didn’t score or assist, he was generally always dangerous while on the ball. His number reflect his solid performance.

For Dortmund, Reyna’s return to top form is a huge boost as it attempts to make one last push for a Champions League spot. It currently sits in fifth place and is four points behind Eintracht Frankfurt with four games remaining. Three of its final four games are against teams in the top six.

Brenden Aaronson came on to start the second half for Red Bull Salzburg on Wednesday in an otherwise disappointing 3-2 loss to Swarovski. The score was 1-1 when he came into the game and Aaronson would later put Salzburg up 2-1 on a play where Tirol’s backline was simply non-existent.

Tirol failed to pick up Brenden Aaronson on this play and the #USMNT midfielder makes them pay. His goal puts Salzburg up 2-1. pic.twitter.com/ZUQt8vlbVE

Unfortunately for Salzburg, Tirol rallied for both an equalizer and winner. With second-place Rapid Vienna drawing on Wednesday, Salzburg’s lead is eight points with six games remaining. Jesse Marsch and company still sit in great shape for another title.

As for Aaronson, here were his total numbers in the loss.

Brenden Aaronson: raw # for Salzburg in a 3-2 loss to Tirol:45 mins25 touches1 shot1 goal0 key passes11/15 passing1/1 long balls0 crosses1 dribble1 foul0x fouled3/8 duels won0/1 aerials 1 tackle0 clearances0 interceptions#USMNT

Julian Green’s potential return to the Bundesliga is now stronger than ever with Greuther Furth’s 3-0 win over Eintracht Braunschweig on Tuesday.

Green was decent in this one with 53 touches and 32/34 passing over 90 minutes and Greuther Furth remained in second place. Third place Hamburg is four points behind but will make up its game-in-hand on Thursday.

John Brooks and Wolfsburg defeated VfB Stuttgart 3-1 on Wednesday to remain in third place. It’s grip on a Champions League spot is still five points (and it is one point better than fourth place Eintracht Frankfurt).

After two straight losses, Wolfsburg returned to the winning column. It was a mixed performance from John Brooks who conceded a penalty via a handball (which was saved) but also won 5/6, drew three fouls, and completed 29/37 in passing.

Weston McKennie and Juventus defeated Parma 3-1 on Wednesday. The Texan went 74 minutes but wasn’t particularly as sharp as he normally is in this one.

Alabama’s and Hoffenheim defeated Borussia Monchengladbach 3-2 on Wednesday with Richards playing the full game for Hoffenheim.

On Wednesday, Josh Sargent and Werder Bremen dropped a 1-0 decision at home to Mainz. The St. Louis native had a goal called back on an offside call through VAR in the 44th minute. In 14th place- Werder Bremen are not quite safe from relegation – sitting four points clear of the relegation playoff position.

In La Liga, Yunus Musah struggled for 14th-place Valencia in a 3-1 loss to 8th place Osasuna. Due to injury, the U.S. international will likely start most games down the stretch of the season.

Yunus Musah: raw # for Valencia in a 3-1 loss to Osasuna52 minutes0 shots0 key passes24 touches13/16 passing3/8 duels won0/3 aerials1/1 dribbling2x fouled0 tackles0 clearances0 interceptions#USMNT

The game was overshadowed by the demise of the European Super League, but Chelsea and Brighton & Hove Albion played to a 0-0 draw on Tuesday. No player stood out for Chelsea and Christian Pulisic played the full 90. the club is now clinging to a Champions League berth via goal differential over West Ham United.

Tyler Adams had a rare lackluster game on Tuesday for RB Leipzig when he started and played 61 minutes in a 2-1 loss to Koln. Adams was criticized on his effort in the second goal.

Reggie Cannon played the final 16 minutes for Boavista in a 2-1 loss to third place Braga. The game was 1-1 when Cannon came into the game but his team was down to 10 players. With six games to go, Boavista is just one point clear of the relegation playoff position.
