THE WEEKEND FOR Americans abroad had the normal peaks and valleys that you would expect – but the valleys were a little startling. For example, one play was suspended for disciplinary reasons and he was still not a regular with his club, another missed two penalties and it is an open question whether it affects his mentality.

But on the flip side, we had young players make professional debuts in the Eredivisie, the Belgian Pro League, and the Bundesliga. You also had players impress in top leagues like the Premier League, Serie A, and the Bundesliga.

With all that said, let’s just get into the weekend with my thoughts on everything good, bad, and somewhere in the middle.

One thing is clear, we are going to learn a lot about Folarin Balogun in the weeks ahead.

The weekend started with a very poor performance from the #USMNT forward who made his first start for Monaco at home to Nice. But the excitement over his introduction into the lineup quickly evaporated as he missed penalties in both the 12th minute and the 56th minute as Monaco ended up dropping a 1-0 decision. Both attempts were saved by Marcin Bulka.

"He was unlucky. He is frustrated," said Monaco coach Adi Hutter. "We're going to help him bounce back."

Balogun also completed just 9/13 passes in his 67 minutes before being subbed out. With the result, Nice leapfrogged Monaco into first place of Ligue 1.

But this will be a useful test for Balogun after what was probably the worst performance of his career. We will now see how quickly he responds. We will learn how quickly he can put it behind him. We will see if he can prevent such an outing from sending him into a prolonged funk.

All strikers have bad games where they miss sitters and easy chances. The good ones are able to put it behind them like it never happened. Others take months to recover. Balogun, 21, is young for this position but this will be a useful measuring stick.

After a very difficult week, AC Milan got back on the winning track on Saturday with a 1-0 win over Hellas Verona. For the first time, both Christian Pulisic and Yunus Musah started for Milan. This was the first start for Musah since joining the club.

The game wasn't great and Milan didn't play nearly as well as they could. Eyes were on Pulisic in this game because he had struggled in the teams two weak performances this past week - first in the blowout loss to Inter Milan and then in a 0-0 draw at home to Newcastle in the Champions League.

Overall, it was a mixed performance from Pulisic. He had a few very good moments - like his work on the goal. But overall, he was frustrated and struggled to consistently be a dangerous threat.

Leão goal?????? #Milan 1-0 #HellasVerona pic.twitter.com/VVWBqGRpW2

Musah, meanwhile, was very good and played the entire game. He impressed off the bench, earned a start, and now looks as if he'll remain in the lineup. He has taken advantage of his opportunities early. In this game, he was good in possession, smooth on the ball, and worked hard winning balls. He was quick in getting the ball forward.

Overall, Pulisic needs to calm down and not force the issue. Doing that has led to frustration. Meanwhile, Musah just needs to keep it up. It's a quick turnaround as they have a midweek game against Cagliari away.

Juventus had a poor effort on Saturday in a difficult 4-2 loss to Sassuolo. Juventus had 57% possession on the road but scoring chances and all other metrics were even. Juventus, however, was chasing the game for 90 minutes. Sassuolo took the lead three different times en route to the win.

Weston McKennie got the start at right wing back and his touch map shows that he was pulled way out wide right in this game. He has been playing this role all season and has grown into it well. Juventus still attacks down the left side more than the right, but McKennie has generated several good chances from the right - like last week.

In this game, he connected on 18/19 of his passes including 2/2 of his long balls. But he was growing nicely into the game, and it was slightly surprising that Max Allegridecided to sub him out in just the 59th minute. When he did, Tim Weah took his place. Weah started on the right and switched to the left wingback position. He had one nice cross, but otherwise struggled to get involved (eight completed passes in 31 minutes).

Overall, this was a poor effort from Juventus and Allegri will have to go back to the drawing board. McKennie will continue to be part of the plans and he has had a nice season, even at a different position. Perhaps Allegri needs to find another role for Weah. What is amazing about Weah is that this season he will turn 24 and he is yet to have a season where he plays more than 1800 minutes in a season. It doesn't seem like that will change this season.

In a London Derby, Crystal Palace drew 0-0 with Fulham at Selhurst Park. With Marc Guehi returning from injury, Chris Richards returned to the bench for Palace. For Fulham, Antonee Robinson returned from injury and started for Fulham. Meanwhile, Tim Ream was the Cottagers captain.

It was a strong return for Robinson who was very active getting up the left side. He was also strong defensively shutting down the attack, forcing turnovers, winning balls, and getting forward. His performance was so good, Fulham gave hi their MOTM.

An excellent return.Well played, @Antonee_Jedi! ????

Ream was also good in defense and using his long ball in distribution.

Both teams have eight points from six games with Palace sitting ninth and Fulham tenth due to goal differential.

Bob Bradley was recently hired by Stabaek to climb out of the relegation zone. Entering Saturday’s game, they were four points from being out of the relegation zone while also having two games in hand. But Saturday’s opponent was Aalesund – the worst team in the league. While playing on the road, this was a game Stabaek needed to win.

Takk for støtten! Ett poeng med hjem, skulle helst vært tre. Nå kommer tre hjemmekamper på rad og vi må plukke poeng?? pic.twitter.com/mjZEsGnooS

But Bradley’s team came up short in a 1-1 draw. After conceding the opening goal, Stabaek equalized just before the half. Stabaek finished the game with a 70-30 edge in possession but could not translate that into a win. There is still plenty of time with Stabaek having eight games remaining (while most other teams have six games), but this was its best chance for a win. Instead, Bradley and his crew will have to find a way to win tougher games.

Damion Downs, 19, became the latest American to play in the Bundesliga. The German-American forward (born in 2004), was subbed into the game for FC Koln in the 82nd minute with Koln trailing Werder Bremen 2-1. Four minutes after coming into the game, Downs nearly equalized the game for Koln when his header hit the post and bounced out. It would have made for a memorable debut. But Koln ended up falling 2-1.

Downs has spent time with U.S. youth national teams and was called up to the U.S. U-20 team in April 2022. He is eligible for the U.S. Olympic team next year. Moving forward, it will be interesting to see if he continues his push for regular minutes. Koln, however, have struggled this season and have just one point from five games.

PSV remained perfect on the season in Eredivisie games with 15 points from five games after a commanding 4-0 win over last-place Almere City on Saturday. Sergino Dest got the start for PSV while Ricardo Pepi was on the bench. Malik Tillman was not on the matchday roster for the Eredivisie leaders because he overslept, and PSV manager Peter Boszwas reportedly very angry about it.

Malik Tillman was dropped from PSV’s matchday roster today because he overslept and Peter Bosz was quite angry about it #USMNT https://t.co/brGLyWidFB

Dest had a strong game at right back, playing 84 minutes and was effective on both sides of the ball in his side. He completed 36/42 of his passes including 3/4 in long balls as he was able to get the ball forward into the attack regularly.

Pepi, 20, came off the bench in the 73rd minute and scored the final goal of the game in stoppage time. It was his first Eredivisie goal from the run of play for PSV and his second for the club in all competitions (scoring against Sturm Graz in a Champions League qualifier).

Ricardo Pepi taking advantage of some optional defending from Almere City to give PSV a 4-0 lead in stoppage time (h/t @DutchLeagues) pic.twitter.com/3lmb5xbxwt

Overall, PSV played well and did not play down to the level of its competition, which could be a concern following an ugly 4-0 loss to Arsenal midweek in the Champions League.

The big question moving forward is whether Pepi is doing enough to earn more minutes off the bench. Bosz has been relying heavily on Luuk de Jong, the team captain who is playing well. No one would argue that Pepi deserves to start over de Jong, but it becomes a question if Pepi can have a role that takes some of the responsibility off de Jong. If de Jong continues playing the minutes he has, he could be fatigued by the middle of the season.

In the Premier League, Matt Turner could do little to help Nottingham Forest in an expected 2-0 loss away to Manchester City. It helped that Man City’s Rodri was sent off in the 46th minute to start the second half. That limited the damage for Forest. Turner could do little on the goals (Phil Foden in the 7th minute, Erling Haaland in the 14th) and ended up making two routine saves over 90 minutes. Turner was certainly not bad, but he had no real chance to shine either.

One of the biggest winners for Americans in England this weekend was Auston Trusty who did not get off the bench for Sheffield United and had nothing to do with the club’s 8-0 loss at home to Newcastle United.

And the biggest winner in this game for Sheffield United was Auston Trusty - who did not get off the bench and had nothing to do with it pic.twitter.com/WoizE8ja2J

In the Championship, the big story coming into the weekend was Preston North End who were leading the league and American attacking midfielder Duane Holmes had been a big part of that. On Saturday they visited Rotherham United and played to a disappointing 1-1 draw, falling behind early and equalizing just before the half. Holmes played 70 minutes in this game but struggled to have the impact he has in the early games to start the season. Still, not a bad result to draw away but when a club like PNE wants to be the top dog in the Championship, this felt like two points lost.

Charlie Kelman was an unused substitute for QPR on Friday in a 0-0 draw with Birmingham City.

On Sunday, Stoke City dropped an ugly 3-1 loss at home. Lynden Gooch went 90 minutes at right back in the loss and was part of an overall poor team effort. Stoke City has just seven points from eight games to start the Championship season.

Josh Sargent was still injured for Norwich but he watched as Norwich, managed by David Wagner, dropped an ugly 6-2 decision on the road to Plymouth Argyle.

In third tier League One, Reading dropped a 4-1 decision at home to Blackpool. U.S. U-20 eligible central defender Tyler Bindon went 90 minutes in the loss.

Back to league action today, and we've taken a deeper look at the numbers in the league behind 18-year-old Tyler Bindon's impressive start to his Reading career ???????????? Delivered by https://t.co/jrXrXir9lN pic.twitter.com/0SE4xM3gRs

In Serie B: after a strong start with 10 points from four games (including three straight wins), Palermo FC suffered its first loss in a surprise 1-0 defeat at home to Cosenza. U.S. national team left back Kristoffer Lund played the second half for Palermo and was very active (33 touches, 19/21 passing, 1/2 accurate crosses, 3/3 ground duels won) but he couldn’t help his team to a result. Still, I would expect him to gradually climb into the starting eleven for Palermo at left back.

Venezia played Brescia to a 0-0 draw on the road on Sunday. It was matchup between two of the better teams in the league who both should be in the mix for promotion. Tanner Tessmann started this game and played 67 minutes while Gianluca Busio went the distance.

Tessmann was playing pretty well before he was taken out after picking up a yellow card. He completed 30/33 of his passes (eight into the final third) with three shots. He was active defensively winning both of his tackles, and was 2/4 in his ground duels.

Busio was on the ball a lot with 78 touches, 55/59 passing, and two shots. He won 2/3 of his tackles, and 5/9 of his ground duels.

Both players are in the pool for both the U.S. national team and the Olympic team. Busio, meanwhile, has been playing much better soccer this season compared with last year where he struggled in Serie B. He seems to have figured out the league and is finding his way into a productive role.

Andrija Novakovich started and played 53 minutes for Lecco in a 0-0 away draw with Modena. It was the first point of the season from three games for Lecco and it wasn’t a bad result for the newly promoted team to draw against the road against a good Modena team.

Borussia Monchengladbach’s poor start to the season continued on Saturday with a 1-0 loss at home to RB Leipzig. Joe Scally and Jordan Pefok got the start and both had tough outings which could put their starting jobs in jeopardy.

Pefok, 27, played 64 minutes and did not register a shot in his 22 touches. He completed 12 passes but lost all four of his ground duels and lost both his his aerials. He also did not draw a single foul. While there was hope that last week's goal would turn his tough year around, this was a step in the wrong direction.

Scally, 20, meanwhile played 79 minutes and did not offer much at the right wingback position. He wasn't at fault for the Leipzig goal, but he didn't make a positive impression this game. It has not been a good start to the season for the Long Island native.

Hoffenheim continued its very strong start to the season with a 2-0 away win over Union Berlin on Saturday. When New Jersey's Pellegrino Matarazzo was hired as the manager in January, the club was near the relegation zone. He guided the club to a midtable finish in 2022/23 and now he has them sitting in third to start 2023/24 through five games - with 12 points.

In this game, John Brooks started for Hoffenheim and had a strong game in the middle of a three-man backline. As is the case when trying to hold a lead on the road, the backline is pressed into duty. Brooks had 12 clearances to lead all playeres. He also won 4/6 of his aerial duels (he did not win a tackle or a ground duel). But his clearances were important in keeping Union Berlin at bay.

Brenden Aaronson, meanwhile, started for Union Berlin but was replaced at the half. He was good defensively in winning balls, pressing, and was 13/14 in passing. But he wasn't able to create much off the dribble or through the intense nature of his play. To be fair, Union Berlin weren't any better after he was replaced in the second half.

On Sunday, Bayer Leverkusen easily defeated Heidenheim 4-1. Lennard Maloney, 23, went 90 minutes in defensive midfield for Heidenheim but did nothing of note in the lopsided defeat. Maloney is going to have to fight through tough losses and help his team pick off results here and there if they want to stay in the Bundesliga. Despite that, they are heavy favorites to suffer the drop in May. But four points from five games is surprisingly good enough for 13th place given the weak bottom half of the Bundesliga table this year.

Borussia Dortmund defeated Wolfsburg 1-0 and the game was a letdown from an American perspective. Like he did midweek in the Champions League, Gio Reyna went as an unused substitute and is yet to make his 2023/24 debut for BVB as he returns from the injury he suffered in June in the Nations League. Kevin Paredes, meanwhile, was listed as out for Wolfsburg due to a thigh injury and that could keep him out of action for the October window for either the U.S. national team or the Olympic team.

After a tough game midweek against Aberdeen in the Conference League, Paxten Aaronson did not get off the bench for Eintracht Frankfurt on Sunday in a 0-0 draw at home with Freiburg. He will get more opportunities soon, but he has to take advantage of them. Internationally, it remains a question if Eintracht would allow him to participate with the U.S. U-23 team. On another note, Timothy Chandler did not make the matchday roster for this game for Eintracht.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Greuther Furth defeated Karlsruher 4-3 to climb to midtable. Julian Green was part of the opening goal in the 7th minute when his corner kick found the head of Tim Lemberle for an assist. But Green was sent off in the 56th minute for his second yellow when the score was 3-3. Trailing a man, Greuther Furth found the winning goal in the 64th minute.

German-American defender Maximilian Dietz, 21, did well to defend and help see out the win for Furth. Dietz, 21, is an underrated option for the U.S. Olympic team as the player pool is thin in central defense. He had six clearances, won 3/4 of his ground duels, and 2/3 of his aerials to preserve the win.

Also in the 2.Bundeslia, Eintracht Braunschweig drew FC Nurnberg 2-2. Attacking midfielder Johan Gomez played 76 minutes for Braunschweig and finished with 28 touches, 13/18 passing, and one shot. He also won 5/9 of his ground duels. The club remains in 17th place in the 18 team league with five points from seven games.

On Sunday, Kaiserslautern defeated Hansa Rostock 3-1. Terrence Boyd came on in the 85th minute to see out the win.

Finally, St. Pauli defeated Schalke 3-1. Houston-born Fabian Hurzeler has done an excellent job since taking over St. Pauli as a manager (at the time he was 29). Now he has the club in second place seven games into the season.

It was a brutal La Liga game for Celta Vigo on Saturday when they dropped a 3-2 result away to Barcelona at Barca's temporary home of Estadi Olimpic Luis Companys.

Celta Vigo surprisingly took a 2-0 lead in this game in the 76th minute but squandered the lead as Robert Lewandowski scored in the 81st and 85th minute to equalize the game and Joao Cancelo founda winner in the 89th.

What is frustrating is that Luca de la Torre, 25, played a strong game for Celta and his performance was squandered in the result.

De La Torre's best moment came in the 19th minute when his first touch sent Norway's Jørgen Strand Larsen into the box for an open shot - which he converted for a 1-0 lead.

But De la Torre did his best given Celta's limited possession of 26% for the game. He wasn't dispossesed a single time. He was also part of the buildup to several good chances which helped Celta finish roughly even on shots (15-13 for Barca) despite the possession edge.

With the loss, Celta fell to 17th place in the 20-team league. They have just four points from six games and are a point clear of the relegation zone. That being said, if they play like they did in this game on Saturday, they should be okay.

In the Segunda, Konrad de la Fuente was still injured for Eibar and missed his team’s 2-1 away win over Cartagena.

On Sunday, Jonathan Gomez, 20, did not get off the bench for Mirandes in a 3-1 loss at home to second-place Leganes. Mirandes fell into the relegation zone with this loss. For Gomez, this loan has gotten off to a troubling start as he has only played limited minutes off the bench. Those minutes are quickly evaporating. If it doesn’t improve come January, he might have to see if there are any options. Playing time has just not been there since his move to Europe.

In Ligue 1, Le Havre defeated Clermont Foot 2-1 and the newly promoted team is one of the most surprising teams in France to start the season. Through six games, they sit in fifth place with nine points. Emmanuel Sabbi, 25, came off the bench in the 74th minute with all the scoring have taken place. He was there to see out the win, which he did.

Sabbi made the move to Le Havre in August and he now is on an overachieving team. He doesn't help out much offensively because the team is scoring without him. But he is making himself useful defensively. In this game, he was sitting very deep and only had 10 touches and was 2/3 in passing. But he won both of his duels, drew a foul, and did what was asked.

Eventually, he'll be hoping to become a needed offensive option. But for now, doing whatever is needed will only put him in good standing when the club is in a position when it needs more offensive options. If he does that, perhaps the national team will be there for him as well.

Volendam earned their first point of the Eredivisie season on Saturday in a 2-2 draw at home with Heracles. Zach Booth, 19, made his first-team professional debut when he came on in the 72nd minute for Volendam with his team trailing 2-1. Booth is at the club on loan from Leicester and is the younger brother of Taylor Booth. Zach Booth played 18 minutes and had 17 touches for an active debut. He completed 6/8 of his passes and was on the field (but not part of) Volendam’s equalizer. Volendam looks as if a relegation battle is ahead. Booth should continue to get his opportunities but likely from the bench for awhile before he starts.

We need you Zach ????#VOLHER pic.twitter.com/dNMJOjdTsf

Speaking of Taylor Booth, he was injured and did not play for Utrecht in a bad 3-0 loss to NEC Nijmegen. Utrecht has just three points from six games.

On Sunday, Sparta Rotterdam defeated Vitesse 1-0. Miami-born winger Agustin Anello, 21, came into the game for Sparta in the 49th minute to replace the injured Koki Saito with the score 1-0. Anello nearly doubled Sparta’s lead in the 90th minute but it was called back for offside. He finished with two shots.

90+. Ook een goal van Anello wordt afgekeurd wegens buitenspel. #spavit

Anello very much wants to be part of the U.S. U-23 Olympic team. He has stated so to ASN in an interview in the spring. Given that he is not critical to Sparta and Sparta would probably love for his value to increase, releases probably won’t be an issue. For him to get call-ups to U-23 camps, he needs to continue to get minutes for Sparta, maybe even a start, and help create scoring chances. He has yet to do that either with Hajduk split last year or with Sparta. But he has the ability to get there.

On Sunday, AZ Alkmaar remained perfect in the Eredivisie with 15 points from five games following a comfortable 3-0 away win over PEC Zwolle. Djordje Mihailovic did not get off the bench for AZ in what has been a concerning start to the season for him on a personal level. This is his first full season with the club but starts are few and far between – now minutes off the bench are limited. Antony Fontana is still awaiting his first appearance of the season in the Eredivisie as he went as an unused substitute in this game as well.

In the second tier Eerste Divisie on Friday, Gedion Zelalem went the full 90 in a 4-1 loss to Roda JC Kerkrade. Justin Che went 82 minutes for ADO Den Haag in a 1-1 draw with Telstar. John Hilton, 22, went 90 minutes at left back from FC Dordrecht in a 0-0 draw at home with Jong AZ Alkmaar.

On Sunday, Genk played St. Truiden to a 3-3 draw at home. U.S. national team central defender Mark McKenzie was scratched from Genk’s matchday roster due to a toe injury. Without him, Genk fell behind 3-0 at halftime behind a hattrick from St. Truiden’s Aboubakary Koita.

Mark McKenzie isn’t playing today due to a toe injury. Genk trailing St Truiden at home 3-0 after 45 minutes. https://t.co/B4ut0q3n1i

Genk, however, rallied in the second half to force a draw. A bit of significant news on the American front came from St. Truiden as Kahveh Zahiroleslam, 21, made his first team professional debut when he came on as a 76th minute sub. As an Iranian-American, Zahiroleslam was most recently playing in college for Yale University. He is eligible for the U.S. Olympic U-23 team but could also play for Iran.

Congratulations to American attacker Kahveh Zahiroleslam for making his professional debut as a 76th minute substitute for St Truiden in a 3-3 draw with Genk in Belgium. - Zahiroleslam most recently played for Yale University pic.twitter.com/9LOGe5cisk

Gaga Slonina, 19, started for Eupen as they visited first place Gent on Sunday. The teenage goalkeeper has been Eupen's first choice keeper since arriving from Chelsea on loan in the summer.

On Sunday, Eupen dropped a 2-1 decision on the road to league leading Gent. But Eupen was in a great position to get a win. At the half, Eupen held a 1-0 lead and Gent was down to 10 players.

But Gent equalized after they were awarded a penalty after a foul that was upheld by VAR. Hugo Cuypers took the kick for Gent and Slonina saved the kick. But the rebound fell to Sven Kums who put it in. Then in the 58th, Eupen's defense was beaten when Tarik Tissoudali headed home a corner.

Overall, it was a good game from Slonina who made four saves but was simply let down by his defense. This was Eupen's third loss in a row and they fell to 11th place with 10 points from eight games.

On Friday, Standard Liege hosted Westerlo and the two teams played to a 0-0 draw. Marlon Fossey started and played 78 minutes at right wingback for Standard while Bryan Reynolds played all 90 minutes for Westerlo.

Standard will surely be frustrated for not achieving a result at home. They finished with a 14-3 shot advantage while completing 515 passes compared to just 247 for Westerlo.

Fossey was active but wasn't part of many opportunities. He had 68 touches and was 40/48 in passing. But very few of his touches were in the attacking third.

Reynolds, meanwhile, was very impressive defensively. He had four interceptions, three clearances, was 4/6 in his tackles, and was 6/12 in his ground duels. Westerlo was pinned back for most of the match and Reynolds helped his team get a result.

The reality, however, is that Westerlo are going to need points. And two points from eight games is not good enough. Standard are also underperforming with seven points from eight games.

Alexander Mighten, 21, suffered an injury on Saturday in Kortijk’s 1-0 loss to Sporting Charleroi on Saturday. He was subbed into the game in the 60th and then subbed out in the 78th minute. The season continues to be a nightmare for Kortrijk which sits in last place with two points from eight games (and a -14-goal differential.

Sam Vines was still injured and did not take part in Royal Antwerp’s disappointing 0-0 draw with RWD Molenbeek.

Alex Mendez has been struggling for playing time this season with Vizela and on Saturday he made his first appearance of the season – and he made a positive impact in the game. The 2019 U.S. U-20 World Cup veteran was subbed into the game in the 84th minute with Vizela trailing Estoril 2-1 away. In the 11th minute of stoppage time, Vizela were awarded their third corner of the game. Mendez delivered the corner with his left foot, and it found the head of Dylan St. Louis for a late equalizer.

Mendez had 17 touches and was 13/14 in his limited action. But with the corner assist, he built a case for more regular time. Vizela have just five points from six games while Estoril have four points.

Alex Mendez hasn't played for Vizela this season until today.. but he comes off the bench and his corner kick turns out to be a stoppage time assist in a 2-2 away draw with Estoril https://t.co/hceBIVpGbV

In Norway, it was a very satisfying win for Sam Rogers who played 90 minutes for Lillestrom in a 3-0 win over Rosenborg – his former club who sold him over the summer after he struggled for minutes. Now, Rogers put forth a great outing in a win to climb to sixth in the Eliteserien.

Also in the Eliteserien, Kobe Hernandez-Foster played the final 15 minutes for 11th place HamKam in a 1-1 draw with Sarpsborg. Meanwhile, Christian Cappis did not make the matchday roster for fifth-place Molde in a 1-1 away draw with Stromsgodset.

In the Danish Superliga, Jonathan Amon did not get off the bench for Lyngby on Friday in a 1-1 draw with Vejle Boldklub.

In the Scottish Premiership, Celtic defeated Livingston away 3-0 despite playing a man down from the 28th minute. Scott Pittman started and played 58 minutes for Livingston and didn’t offer much. Cameron Carter-Vickers remained out for Celtic.

Aberdeen defeated Ross County 4-0. Dante Polvara, 23, scored midweek against Eintracht Frankfurt in the Conference League but went as an unused substitute in this game. Joe Efford was not on the matchday roster for Motherwell in a 1-0 loss away to Rangers.In Hungary’s NBI, Henry Wingo went 90 minutes for perennial champions Ferencvaros in a 1-0 win over Kisvarda FC.

In Sweden’s Allsvenskan, Joe Gyau was not part of the lineup for Degerfors which lost 2-1 at home to first place Malmo. Degerfors remains in the relegation zone, but only trails the relegation playoff team, Sirius, on goal differential.

In the Greek Super League, Lamia dropped a 2-0 decision to Panserraikos on the road. Caleb Stanko started in defensive midfield and played 64 minutes. Two minutes after he left the game, Panserraikos scored their first goal. Lamia sit in eighth place with five points from five games.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, George Bello was not on the matchday roster for LASK in a 0-0 draw with TSV Hartberg.

In Azerbaijan, Kenny Saief started and played 90 minutes for FK Neftchi in a 1-1 draw away to first place Zira.

In Mexico’s Liga MX, Alejandro Zendejas played the final 12 minutes for Club America in a 1-1 away draw with Toluca.

In the Argentine Primera, Huracan defeated Velez Sarsfield 3-0 on Saturday night. Alan Sonora went 84 minutes in the win while his brother Joel Sonora was an unused substitute for Huracan. The elder Sonora had a good game in the midfield with his passing in the midfield to open the game.
