THE WEEKEND IN MLS was topped by two big games outside of league play – that saw very different results. LAFC clinched a birth the Club World Cup with a thrilling win over Club America in California while the Vancouver Whitecaps were thrashed in Mexico City in the final of the CONCACAF Champions Cup. Then you have another interesting week of league play.

There is a lot to break down, but let’s start with the bad news before the good

Entering this game, I was pessimistic for Vancouver’s chances in the final against Cruz Azul for many reasons. First, Cruz Azul was a very good team. Second, this final was only one leg – in Mexico City. Third, the Whitecaps were without their two of their best players, both midfielders, in Sebastian Berhalter and Ryan Gauld. It seemed like a mismatch on paper.

And it was.

Cruz Azul dominated the game from the opening whistle in a 5-0 blowout win. Vancouver made too many mistakes - and were punished. Without Berhalter and Gauld, there was no way for the Caps to attack. That was reflected in Vancouver failing to get a shot on goal.

Thank you again to all of our fans who made the big trip. Your support never goes unnoticed. ???? pic.twitter.com/sDPJrRH92h

Vancouver would not have won this game without Berhalter or Gauld. Not on this night, at least. Cruz Azul was just playing too well. Vancouver helped the opponents by not coming into the game focused and allowing the game to completely unravel early.

As for Vancouver, the run to the final was nice and it is certainly impressive that they eliminated Saprissa, Monterrey, Pumas, and Inter Miami during their run. But the question is whether this was just a team that was hot for three months, or are they good?

The CONCACAF run is over. Now we will learn more about this team as the grind of the season begins for them.

Due to the debacle that was Leon being barred from the Club World Cup due to the rule on multiple club ownership, FIFA mandated a playoff between LAFC and Club America for the final spot in the Club World Cup. It was a weird way to give a birth for a new and questionable tournament, but that did not take away from this game. Nor did the $10 million on the line to the winner.

Both teams played hard in front of a full stadium that had boisterous supporters for both teams. It was one of the most entertaining games ever played by an MLS team.

After Club America took the lead via a goal from the penalty spot by former LAFC forward Brian Rodriguez, LAFC was able to find another gear.

The equalizer came at the death. Denis Bouanga, one of the best attackers in MLS history, sent in a corner that was headed home by Igor Jesus in the 89th minute.

Then in the 115th, LAFC found a winner when Frankie Amaya played Olivier Giroux at the top of the box. A heavy touch (or a layoff) fell to an onrushing Bouanga who hit a shot that deflected into the goal.

Match Winner ??115' ?? Denis Bouanga#LAFC | @FIFACWC pic.twitter.com/bqyCvvVVml

This win was gutsy and impressive. LAFC didn’t let the game get away from them after a penalty call didn’t go their way. Beating Club America is impressive in a game that was viewed as highly important to both teams. The atmosphere in the stadium also translated very well.

Also, full credit to Steve Cherundolo for making some great decision – specifically going to Frankie Amaya for extra time.

It’s time to be a little bit worried about the Columbus Crew after the 5-1 loss to Miami. Yes, Messi was on his game, but the Crew blew so many chances early that would have set a different tone to the match. Losing Cucho was huge. They had a plan when he left and that was Daniel Gazdag. Unfortunately, he looks lost with the Crew. Wilfried Nancy is a good coach, but he has a lot to figure out – but he can’t work with Gazdag in the coming weeks as the forward has returned to Hungary to play for its national team.

Sticking with that, FC Cincinnati is also in a bad place and a top team in the league shouldn’t be losing to DC United at home. There might be parity in MLS, but not that much. Cincinnati still has a good record, but they won a lot of one-goal games where Roman Celetano stood on his head making huge saves. He hasn’t been playing as well recently, and the results aren’t there for Cincy because of that. A second-place team that has a GD of only +1 after 17 games is overperforming. Unless things change, they’ll float down towards midtable where they belong.

The Red Bulls had an easy time with Atlanta in a 2-0 result that was more than fair. Coming into this game, it seemed like Atlanta turned the corner with wins over Cincy and Orlando. But this game came on the road, and Atlanta still hasn’t won on the road. It’s tough to say things that haven’t already been said about Atlanta, but they need some soul searching at the break. The Red Bulls have won three in a row, but it’s still tough to say they are a good team. It seems like a lot has to go right for them to win. But playing Cam Harper on the wing as opposed to at fullback is giving them another point of attack – which is sorely needed.

All it took was 3 minutes for @cameron__harper to start cooking ???? pic.twitter.com/VTTNUlT0DB

Chicago trounced Orlando 3-1. Great result for Berhalter and Company. Orlando, meanwhile, has been its own worst enemy in a recent skid with goalkeeper mistakes and red cards. Those are fixable problems. The Fire are up and down, but fans should be optimistic about the team’s overall direction. They will make a playoff push now that they can score goals. Brian Gutierez missed this game due to a red card suspension and Berhalter might put the USMNT hopeful in the dog house for a bit.

Dallas responded to being home from a long road trip with a 0-0 draw with Philly, where Philly was unlucky not to win it. I expected more from Dallas in this one. To play this poorly after getting home is concerning.

San Diego continues to look great after a 2-0 win over a fading Austin team that is now looking as expected in preseason (predicted out of the playoffs by ASN). American imports Luca de la Torre and Milan Illoski with the goals. De la Torre is back to playing regularly, it will be interesting to see how he looks in his return to the USMNT.

Seattle will limp into the Club World Cup after losing at home 3-2 to Minnesota United. Another inconsistent team in MLS, Seattle’s defense isn’t nearly as good as last year.

Also, LA Galaxy celebrated their first win of the season with a 2-0 victory over RSL. The Galaxy won’t make the playoffs this season. It will be interesting to see how they can salvage the season. Hopefully young players can start to get real minutes to lay the foundation for a better 2026.

For those remembering when Bridgeview was a big deal, the Chicago Fire are now looking to get another home all to themselves. Tuesday’s announcement of a new stadium in Chicago was big news because it gives MLS teams a strong footprint inside of the biggest cities of the United States. LAFC was big step, then there will by NYCFC, and now Chicago. That is important.

Commissioner approved ? #cf97 pic.twitter.com/4yvYxXs9PS

From 1996-2000 the goal was for the league to survive. Then in the first decade of the millennium, the priority was just to build stadiums regardless of location and, most importantly, to get out of NFL stadiums. This led to stadiums way outside of the downtown areas – FC Dallas, Colorado Rapids, Philadelphia, RBNY, and yes, the Chicago Fire with Bridgeview.

Now the priority is to build downtown. LAFC was huge in that regard but also Miami, NYCFC, Columbus, and DC United. Chicago will now be on both sides of the equation after Bridgeview did not work out. But it will be interesting to see if teams that built stadiums off the beaten path get left behind – or missed out.
