AS WE APPROACH THE November international window in less than two weeks, soccer seems to be hanging by a thread right now, unfortunately. With COVID cases rising around the globe as temperatures drop, more players are becoming affected and governments are taking more significant measures in their approaches to handling the pandemic.

It remains to be seen how much the games will be affected but for now we are going to proceed as normal, knowing everything is subject to change.

Here is my notebook which I will be following – both domestically and abroad.

On the heels of a standout performance for Chelsea against Krasnodar, Christian Pulisic and Chelsea will be entering into a winnable stretch of games in the Premier League that begins with Burnley on Saturday and will be followed by Sheffield United and Newcastle United.

The Hershey native was the difference maker in the Champions League against Krasnodar on Wednesday when he came into a dull contest in the 71st minute with Chelsea up 1-0. Pulisic, 22, then proceeded to draw a penalty, pick-up a “hockey” assist, and the score his own goal en route to a 4-1 win. It was reminiscent of how well he played when the Premier League resumed over the summer following the shutdown when, for about a month, he was playing among the best players in the world.

It’s easy to forget that Pulisic missed all of the preseason and most of the early parts of the season for Chelsea. He recently started three games in a seven-day span, prior to the Krasnodar game. It seems likely he will return to the starting lineup on Saturday and if he is on his game, it will be very exciting for American fans.

Both of these teams enter into this game with a respectable eight points from their first five games. For Werder Bremen, in particular, a decent start is very welcome news after last season’s relegation fight where it avoided the drop only via a narrow win over Heidenheim in the playoff.

Werder Bremen is a tough team to watch, even when playing well. It scraps by games, commits a lot of fouls to prevent games from getting too open, and generally hopes to score by capitalizing on limited chances. American forward Josh Sargent is still yet to score on the season and part of that is due to him drifting back into the midfield to win balls and use his hold-up skills to keep possession.

There are signs based on media reports that Werder will change its approach with Sargent and have him stay more into the attack. That would be welcome news as Sargent rarely is on the end of anything dangerous lately – although is playing well at times.

For Eintracht Frankfurt, former U.S. national team right back Timothy Chandler has struggled for minutes and is typically only an occasional player off the bench. In this game, he is only likely to play if Eintracht decide to press forward for a late goal.

Gio Reyna, 17, has had a great season where he has taken over the No. 10 position for Borussia Dortmund. His chemistry and combination play with Erling Halaand is one of the best youthful combos in Germany at the moment. So far this season, Dortmund is playing as well as it typically does and is hovering near the top of the table after five games (third place but just one point behind leaders RB Leipzig).

Reyna has been very effective in Bundesliga games so far but his performance in Wednesday 2-0 win over Zenit in the Champions League was not as sharp. One of the most impressive aspects of Reyna’s career at this very early stage is that he rebounds quickly from average outings. Expectations should be high for him and the entire Dortmund team when it takes on an newly-promoted Arminia Bielefeld team that has lost three in a row.

Tyler Adams missed last week’s game for RB Leipzig (a 2-1 win over Hertha BSC) due to a minor back injury. Midweek, he was an unused substitute for Leipzig in a terrible 5-0 loss to Manchester United in the Champions League. The former New York Red Bull is very important to Leipzig when playing against top opposition and his absence in central midfield was apparent against a Manchester United team that controlled the middle of the field.

If this was a weak opponent, perhaps Adams would sit out this weekend but Borussia Monchengladbach is typically among the better Bundesliga teams and it currently is in sixth place. If Adams can play in this one, he probably will for Leipzig as Leipzig will need a disruptive presence in the midfield.

Matt Miazga has played very well for Anderlecht since arriving earlier in the month. The New Jersey-born central defender has shown very well in a draw against OH Leuven and a win over Kortrijk. Sunday will be a different level test for Miazga and Anderlecht as they take on an Antwerp team that sits atop the Belgian table after 10 games.

Only three points separate Antwerp and seventh-place Anderlecht and the standings are very tight right now in Belgium. There will be a lot on the line for both teams. For Miazga, games like this will certainly go a long way to perhaps increasing his chances into becoming the starting national team central defender alongside John Brooks.

With four draws and a win through its first five games, Wolfsburg hasn’t lost yet in the 2020/21 season. Its success has been primarily attributed to its defense as Wolfsburg has allowed just three goal thus far. John Brooks is off to a great start on the season and on Sunday the U.S. international will get the opportunity to take on his former club in Berlin.

Hertha was the childhood club for Brooks and he rose through the club’s academy and into the first team. It was there where he helped the club earn promotion into the Bundesliga and use his performances there to earn a spot on the U.S. national team.

Despite playing away from home, Wolfsburg is the favorite heading in this game as Hertha has lost four in a row.

Weston McKennie returned from a COVID-19 absence and made an appearance midweek off the bench for Juventus in a 2-0 loss to Barcelona in the Champions League. He will now be looking for another Serie A outing when it travels south of Genoa to visit Spezia.

The Texan is likely to come off the bench in this one although Juventus has drawn its last three games (not including the forfeit win over Napoli) and Andrea Pirlo might look to shake things up. McKennie has made two appearances for the Italian champions in Serie A and one more in the Champions League.

While Juventus has gotten off to a slow start in Serie A, it is expected to defeat a Spezia team that has just five points from five games.

Sergino Dest did not get off the bench for Barcelona in its midweek win over Juventus in the Champions League but will look to return to the starting lineup on Saturday when they visit a Deportivo Alaves that has just seven points from seven games to start the season.

Dest was one of the few bright spots for Barcelona last weekend when it fell to Real Madrid 3-1. Overall, Dest should be pleased with his performances since arriving in Spain although the legendary club is off to a poor start in La Liga. It has just a single point from its last three games. The midweek win over Juvenuts, however, should be a momentum boost and it seems likely that Dest will feature in some manner – whether as a starter or as a substitute.

Also of interest for American fans is that U.S. U-20 winger Konrad de la Fuente has made Barcelona’s matchday travelling roster for this game and is looking to make his first-team debut. Regardless of Barcelona’s struggles, playing for a team of its caliber is a huge achievement.

Reggie Cannon and Boavista are still looking for their first win of the season and will face a huge challenge on Monday when they host leaders Benfica.

It isn’t yet known where Chris Richards will play this weekend. He might make the matchday roster for Bayern Munich when it visits Koln on Saturday or perhaps he starts for Bayern Munich II away at Wehen Wiesbaden on Sunday.

In Germany’s 2.Bundesliga, Julian Green should start for Greuther Furth when it hosts Hannover on Sunday.

In the 3.Liga, red-hot Terrence Boyd will aim to score in his third straight game when Hallescher hosts Unterhaching on Saturday. Meanwhile American manager Joe Enochs and Zwickau visit Very on Saturday as well.

In the Premier League, DeAndre Yedlin will hope to make the bench for Newcastle United when it hosts Everton on Sunday. On Monday, Tim Ream and Antonee Robinson will hope to lift Fulham out of the Premier League basement when it hosts West Bromwich Albion.

In the Championship, AFC Bournemouth hosts Derby County on Saturday. Cameron Carter-Vickers will hope to feature for Bournemouth for the first time while Duane Holmes will aim to return to struggling Derby County’s starting lineup. Meanwhile, Queens Park Rangers hosts Cardiff City on Saturday. Team captain Geoff Cameron will likely start for QPR while Charlie Kelman will aim to make the bench and is looking for is club debut. Finally, New Jersey-born fullback Matthew Olosunde will hope to make is second appearance of the season for Rotherham United when it visits Stoke on Saturday.

In third-tier League One, Lynden Gooch has three assists in his last four games and will certainly start for Sunderland when it visits Gillingham on Saturday. Indiana Vassilev will hope to spark last-place Burton Albion when it visits Blackpool on Saturday.

In Italy’s Serie B, Andrija Novakovich has been playing very well and will surely start for Frosinone when its hosts Cremonese on Saturday. Meanwhile, Giuseppe Barone will hope to make his professional debut for Salernitana when it hosts Reggiana on Saturday.

In Spain’s second tier, 2015 U.S. U-20 fullback Shaq Moore will likely start for Tenerife on Sunday when it visits Fuenlabrada.

In France’s Ligue 1, Tim Weah will hope to make the bench for Lille when it hosts Lyon on Sunday. Weah didn’t make the roster last weekend. In Ligue 1, Nicholas Gioacchini will hope to return from COVID and feature for SM Caen when it visits Paris FC. Young American attacker Patrick Koffi has not made the bench for Paris FC since earning a red card in the opening weekend.

In the Eredivisie, Luca de la Torre will aim for another start for Heracles when it hosts Utrecht on Sunday. Uly Llanez is still aiming for his first start for Heerenveen when it visits Sparta Rotterdam on Sunday. Desevio Payne will likely be on the bench for FC Emmen when it hosts Feyenoord on Sunday.

Richard Ledezma will hope to make PSV’s roster on Sunday vs. ADO Den Haag but will probably start for Jong PSV on Monday when it hosts Cambur. In the second-tier Eerste Divisie, Sebastian Soto will likely start for Telstar when it visits Jong AZ on Monday.

In Turkey’s top flight, Eric Lichaj and Fatih Karagumruk defeated Erzurum 5-1 on Friday. Tyler Boyd won’t play for Besiktas when it hosts Yeni Malayaspor on Sunday.

In Belgium’s top flight, Ethan Horvath will likely be the backup goalkeeper for Club Brugge when it hosts Mechelen on Saturday. Chris Durkin has been struggling for minutes at St. Truiden and will likely be on the bench for its visit to Excel Mouscron on Friday. Joe Efford and Waasland-Bevern host Gent on Sunday. Brenden Hines-Ike will likely ben on the bench for Kortrijk on Monday in an away matchup vs. Zlute Waregem.

Jesse Marsch and Red Bull Salzburg will strive to maintain their perfect record in the Austrian Bundesliga on Saturday when they host Swarovski Tirol. U.S. U-23 central defender Erik Palmer-Brown and Austria Vienna visit Hartberg on Saturday.

In Norway, Molde right back Henry Wingo is coming off an excellent performance in a 1-0 win over Rapid Vienna in the Europe League and will hope to carry that over into league play during a visit to Mjondalen on Sunday.

In Sweden’s top flight Allvenskan, Aron Johannsson and Hammarby host Hacken on Sunday. Johannsson has 10 goals in his last 12 games. Romain Gall will likely be on the bench for Orebro in a visit to IFK on Sunday. Mix Diskerud and Helsingborg host Malmo on Monday.

In Denmark, Emmanuel Sabbi and OB host Horsens. Sabbi will likely start for OB while American Michael Lansing will be the backup goalkeeper for Horsens. Potential U.S. central midfielder Jens Cajuste and Midtjylland visit a Nordsjaeeland team that will be without Jonathan Amon. Red-hot Haji Wright and Sonderjyske host AGF Aarhus on Monday.

In Scotland’s Premiership, Dillon Powers and Ian Harkes will likely play for Dundee United when it hosts Ross County on Saturday.

Jordan Siebatcheu will hope for more than token bench minutes when his Young Boys team visits Lugano in the Swiss Super League on Sunday.

Gboly Ariyibi and Panaitolikos host PAOK in the Greek Super League on Sunday.

Argentina will resume this weekend with the Copa Liga Profesional . Joel Sonora and Talleres de Cordoba host Newell’s Old Boys on Friday night. Joel’s younger brother Alan Sonora and Independiente visit Central Cordoba SdE on Sunday. U.S. U-20 attacking mid/forward Matko Miljevic host San Lorenzo on Saturday.

In Brazil, Johnny Cardoso and Internacional visit Corinthians on Saturday night.

In Peru's top flight, Claudio Torrejon and Sport Boys will visit Cusco on Monday.

The 2020 MLS regular season is approaching the finish line and will hope to conclude the season despite a worsening COVID outbreak across the globe. The big news is that Philadelphia could wrap up the Supporters Shield for its first major trophy in its history.

The Hudson River Derby will also have big playoff implications.

The Philadelphia Union are playing so well right now that even when they’re not playing well, they win. Such was the case on Wednesday during a 2-1 victory over the Chicago Fire. When Philadelphia is playing well, they’re almost unbeatable in this league.

Philadelphia is fun to watch and its makeup of veterans and young players is refreshing. Brenden Aaronson will be off to Salzburg after this season and his development has been interesting to watch as he has spearheaded the midfield of the league’s best team. Mark McKenzie is also a player who is looking to make a jump to Europe soon and the 2019 U.S. U-20 World Cup captain should be nominated for the league’s Defender of the Year.

But the Union have a major concern heading into this as starting goalkeeper Andre Blake is in the running for the Goalkeeper of the Year but was injured midweek in the win over the Fire.

Columbus was once leading the Eastern Conference but have stumbled down the stretch with just one win over its last seven games. With the return of Darlington Nagbe to the starting lineup, Columbus is hoping to halt its skid an remain near the top of the standings heading into the playoffs.

The Hudson River Derby is always pretty good with these teams not caring for each other. The lack of fans in the stands, however, will take a big chunk of the interest out of this game from a neutral perspective.

These two teams are heading into the postseason and it is all about seeding now. After a brutal start to the season New York City is in fifth place with 33 points from 21 games. The Red Bulls are in seventh place with 29 points from 21 games.

The Red Bulls have improved under Bradley Carnell and the interim manager has the team playing extremely hard under him in every game – right up to the final whistle. The Red Bulls have scored very late goals in the past three games – two equalizers and a winner midweek over New England.

There is plenty to like about the Red Bulls right now and its central defense is rising late in the season. The team might struggle to score goals but Aaron Long and Tim Parker should keep it in most games. The question will be where the goals will come from during the run of play? The forward position is week but young Caden Clark, 17, has scored two big goals the past two weeks.

Defensive-minded Nashville SC is attempting to qualify for the playoffs in its inaugural season and it will host a Chicago Fire team that is on the right track under Raphael Wicky but is neck and neck with Inter Miami for the East’s final playoff spot.

Nashville currently sit in fifth place and its success is due to a defense that has conceded just 18 goals in 20 games. Walker Zimmerman is another defender who should be in the running for defender of the year. His trade from LAFC to Nashville has had a huge impact in the league in terms of its adverse effect on LAFC and its positive effect on Nashville.

The Chicago Fire has played a much more entertaining style of soccer compared with recent seasons. U.S. U-23 attacking midfielder Djordje Mihailovic has two goals and five assists this season but has been significantly improved in recent months. Robert Beric has 10 goals from 20 games and has been one of the Eastern Conference’s better strikers this season.

These are two teams with a lot to prove and have a lot on the line. It should make for an interesting contest.

Toronto is hoping to remain in the Supporters Shield race while Inter Miami is hoping to remain in the hunt for a postseason berth. Both of these teams have a lot to play for in this one and something has to give. The odds favor Toronto based on talent but not on momentum as the Canadian team has lost consecutive games coming into this game: a 1-0 loss to New York City and a 5-0 loss to Philadelphia.

Alejandro Pozuelo is likely the league MVP but it will need to get better play out of Michael Bradley who struggled against New York City FC. Toronto is clearly limping into the playoffs as at this point, it just hopes Pablo Piatti and Jozy Altidore will return for the postseason.

Inter Miami has been playing better lately and is trying to take advantage of a very forgiving playoff format in the Eastern Conference. A win in this one could be enough for the play-in round. With the Higuain brothers and Blaise Matuidi it will hope an older core can be a benefit in these games. Inter Miami lacks depth but certainly has enough talent to pull off a surprise.

Two of the toughest teams to figure out in 2020 will meet on Sunday with playoff seeding at stake. At one point, San Jose was considered one of the worst teams in the league but credit to Mathias Almedya who has made some key adjustments and motived his team to play harder over the past six weeks. As a result, San Jose is now close to clinching not just a playoff berth, but a decent spot at that.

Chris Wondolowski is trying to close off his career in style and had two goals midweek in a 2-0 win over Real Salt Lake. But the team has improved across the board – American players such as Nick Lima, Jackson Yueill, and goalkeeper JT Marcinkowski have all played big role in the turn around.

LAFC meanwhile has Carlos Vela back and is starting to play better. The season has been rocky, especially defensively, but LAFC has enough talent to make a playoff run if it plays up to its potential. It currently sits in fifth place and its 44 goals scored is tied with Portland for most in the league.

This matchup between teams trending upward is one of the better games of the weekend – especially in the Western Conference.

FC Dallas is trying to continue to improve heading into the playoffs and will host Houston on Saturday.

Atlanta United will attempt to keep its fading playoff hopes alive on Sunday when it hosts last-place FC Cincinnati. This is the winnable matchup Atlanta needs.

Montreal has lost four of its last five games but still is likely to sneak into the playoffs. Orlando SC is one of the most improved teams in the league under Oscar Pareja and is looking to move into the top three with a win. Orlando has two intriguing Americans in Chris Mueller and Daryl Dike who are both having great seasons.

Sporting Kansas City, second in the West, will host Minnesota Untied, fourth in the West, on Sunday. This is a game with teams attempting to earn a home game in the first round of the playoffs and two teams who have hopes of advancing to MLS Cup.

Believe it or not, DC United has won three in a row and could sneak into the playoffs. The team has rallied since Ben Olsen’s dismissal and its visit to New England on Sunday could see that dramatic push continue. New England is safe for the playoffs but is struggling heading into the postseason with just one point from its last three games. Wednesday’s loss to the Red Bulls was heartbreaking as it conceded a late goal off a set piece to squander a result.

The Colorado Rapids have struggled since returning after missing a month due to a COVID outbreak within the organization. It is a bit unfair and its tough schedule against Sporting Kansas City, Minnesota, and now Seattle has made it even harder. Perhaps a return home into the thin air will be welcome news but Seattle has the clear edge here.

With a little luck and a solid performance, Portland can move atop the Western Conference if it defeats Vancouver on Sunday night. But Vancouver as a slight chance at the playoffs but needs to pick up points and results. Portland has the clear edge but a desperate Vancouver team could surprise.

The LA Galaxy are a mess and mercifully fired Guillermo Barros Schelotto on Thursday. But that does not solve the team’s problems. The roster is poorly constructed and the team has zero chemistry. More changes in the front office are needed and the team needs to find a way to get Chicharito scoring. This season is a lost cause but laying the foundation for next season is key. We will see what happens when it hosts Real Salt Lake on Sunday. This game lacks any kind of intrigue as RSL is likely out of the playoffs too but most will want to watch this one to see how the Galaxy perform.
