THE WEEKEND for Americans abroad was a good one because it showcased depth as American players had success in a wide range of leagues across Europe and even into Mexico. We saw a number of big performances from players who are on the national team to those looking to get in the squad.

In England, Haji Wright added another goal for Coventry. In the Eredivisie, Ricardo Pepi continues to play well for PSV with this fifth goal of the season. Meanwhile, Paxten Aaronson added one to boost his resume and keep Utrecht in second place. Johnny Cardoso picked up a big assist for Real Betis in a draw. Tim Weah scored for Juventus in a Derby win. Andrija Novakovich scored to keep Bari in a Serie B promotion race. Damion Downs had a dramatic winner for Koln in the 2.Bundesliga. Joe Corona scored for Tijuana as the Liga MX season enters its pivotal weeks.

But even apart from the goals and assists, it was a positive weekend – for the most part. Tyler Adams started a game and was subbed out healthy. Mark McKenzie and Tanner Tessmann continue to trend up. Cole Campbell continues to play for Borussia Dortmund.

Let’s get into the thick of it.

Tyler Adams took another big step in his comeback on Saturday when he started for AFC Bournemouth. The 2022 USMNT World Cup captain was subbed out - healthy - in the 67th minute of a 3-2 loss away to Brentford. All of the scoring took place while Adams was on the field, although he was not involved in any of the goals either way.

The good news is that Adams was healthy and he received a big workout in this game. Success isn't one game or two for Adams. It's staying healthy for one month, then two, then three. He needs to be able to put himself on a pace for 2000 minutes. The only questions about him as a player are his durability.

His performance in this game was okay, but not great. He was caught out of position a few times. It's probably due to rust, but he will need to show improvement as he continues to play more.

Bournemouth ended the day in 11th place.

Ready ???? pic.twitter.com/O3n2GgH7qD

Fulham secured a 2-0 away win over Crystal Palace on Sunday in a London Derby. Antonee Robinson went 90 minutes for Fulham in a decent but not great outing. The USMNT left back was on the ball a lot with 95 touches and completed a high number of passes. But he had a few turnovers and wasn't part of many dangerous opportunities. This game was even until Palace was reduced to 10 men in the 74th minute. After that, Fulham was able to pull away.

Another big note from this game is the Chris Richards returned to the bench after missing over a month with a hamstring injury. While he did not play, he was healthy enough to make the bench, which was important as it put him back on the USMNT. Matt Turner also made the bench for Palace as he is their backup keeper.

Palace sits just one point clear of the bottom three and the next few months will dictate if they are in danger of relegation. Fulham, meanwhile, end the weekend in seventh place and have a shot at Europe this year if they continue to play well.

Aidan Morris had another good shift for Middlesbrough on Saturday in a comfortable 5-1 rout over Luton Town at home. Morris played 70 minutes and was subbed out with the score 4-0. The USMNT midfielder did well to control possession and the pace of the game. He was 48/53 in passing including 4/4 long balls. He also was 5/5 in tackles, was 8/9 in ground duels, and drew three fouls.

The game went a long way to showing how effective he can be in the Championship as Middlesbrough moved into sixth place with the win. Morris likely has a promotional race ahead of him and his move from Columbus continues to be a successful one.

Only one Morris on Teesside ???? pic.twitter.com/D9UQJJk3pi

Brenden Aaronson was again effective for Leeds United on Saturday in a 2-0 win over last-place Queens Park Rangers. Aaronson did not factor into a goal contribution for either of the two tallies, but he drew fouls, made impressive runs, and helped to set up his teammates. All of this allowed Leeds to remain on the front-foot throughout. Even when things did not go his way, Aaronson worked hard. He found is way into a lot of duels, but lost many. He had eight touches in the QPR box.

Aaronson is valuable because he does contribute, but also in that he brings a lot of energy to the game. This Leeds team benefits off of it. With the win, Leeds ended Saturday in second place and will have a promotional race ahead.

Haji Wright was key to another Coventry City comeback as he scored the club's first goal in what turned out to be a 2-2 draw away to Championship leaders Sunderland. But the bigger story with him is that he left the game in stoppage time with an ankle injury that did not look good. Trailing 2-0 at halftime, Wright's goal with a nice left-footed shot in the 62nd minute made it 2-1 (with the equalizer coming in the 84th minute).

They fought to the end. pic.twitter.com/qVVvN3qXiD

Wright now has six goals on the season to go along with one assist and Coventry now sits in 17th place. Wright's season began poorly but he has been trending upward in recent weeks. In this game, he finished with four shots and won 5/6 of his aerials. The physical Championship is a good fit for him.

The ankle injury saw him not be selected to the USMNT roster for November and we are awaiting word over how much time he will miss.

Lynden Gooch remains out for Stoke with a knee injury and he watched as Stoke City played Millwall to a 1-1 draw on Saturday to move into 11th place.

Ethan Horvath continues to be the backup for Cardiff City which lost to Blackburn 3-1 at home. Cardiff ended the day in 21st place in the 24-team league and Horvath remains in a bad spot after a tough few seasons.

Josh Sargent is sorely missed by Norwich, which does not look close to contending for promotion without him. On Saturday, Norwich lost 2-0 at home to Bristol City to fall to 14th place. Sargent is expected back at the end of December or early January.

After turning 30 this week, Duane Holmes had a rough day on Saturday when he started for Preston North End but was pulled at the half as part of a triple sub while trailing Portsmouth 2-0. PNE went on to lose 3-1 to fall to 20th place. It was a bad loss for PNE to lose to a Portsmouth team that entered the day in last but moved up a spot with the win.

Paxten Aaronson had another big day on Friday for Utrecht when he scored the winning goal in a 1-0 victory over Heracles. The recent U.S. Olympic team attacking midfielder scored in the 67th minute off a corner kick.

Paxten Aaronson zet FC Utrecht met wat geluk op voorsprong!????????#utrher

But beyond the goal (which featured comically bad set piece defending from Heracles), Aaronson had a big day on both sides of the ball. In fact, his defensive numbers were very impressive: 7/9 tackles, 11/16 ground duels, 4 interceptions. Offensively, he was on the ball a lot and contributed to Utrecht’s dominance on this game that was not reflected in the final score.

With the win Utrecht remained even on points for second place in the Eredivisie.

If there was an Eredivisie team of the season for the first 3-4 months, Aaronson would be on it. That’s how well he has been playing.

???? Matchwinner ???????????????????????? ???????????????????????????????? ???????????? 'We kunnen beter en iedereen in het team weet dat' pic.twitter.com/lsKWFJFOT0

On the flip side, Taylor Booth came into the game in the 88th minute. He did okay in his brief shift, but his lack of minutes this season is concerning.

Ricardo Pepi scored his fifth Eredivisie goal of the season on Saturday when he opened the scoring for PSV in a 3-0 win over NAC Breda. The former FC Dallas forward scored from close range in the 21st minute and it was one of four shots he had in his 71 minutes before being subbed out after all the goals were scored.

This is just more evidence that Pepi can carry the load for PSV in the Eredivisie. Yes, he has five goals in under 400 minutes in league play. But this game give him another chance to play outside of mop-up time during a lopsided score. The question is always what is PSV's plans after Luuk De Jong. Pepi looks ready to be their guy, whenever that happens.

Malik Tillman also started and played 83 minutes. He was good in possession and also in his ball-winning (winning 6/7 of his ground duels). He also set up two good chances. Now we will see if he translates that over to the USMNT, which hasn't happened yet. But he continues to have a very good season for PSV.

Richard Ledezma came into the game in the 84th minute to play right back and he set up a chance in the 87th on a cross to Luuk de Jong.

In the Eerstedivisie, Zach Booth was not in the squad for Excelsior in a 2-0 win over FC Eindhoven.

It was a tough assignment for U.S. U-20 winger Cole Campbell who was subbed into Borussia Dortmund’s 3-1 away loss to Mainz in the 74th minute. Dortmund was down to 10 men in the 27th minute and all the scoring had taken place by the time Campbell came into the game.

Jordan Pefok played the final 17 minutes plus stoppage time for seventh place Union Berlin in a 0-0 draw with sixth-place Freiburg. It continues to be a tough season for Pefok, 28, who is playing regularly for Union Berlin and is doing some useful things with his hold-up play. But forwards must score and Pefok is still yet to score in either the Bundesliga or DFB Pokal this season.

Joe Scally went a steady and strong 90 minutes for Borussia Monchengladbach in a 0-0 away draw against second place RB Leipzig. Scally didn't have any big moments that you would find in the highlight reels, but he was consistently good to help keep a clean sheet. Overall, it's another step forward is a strong season for Scally. With the win, Scally and M'Gladbach moved into the top 10 of the Bundesliga as they now sit in 9th place.

Timmy Chandler was not in the squad for third place Eintracht Frankfurt in a 3-2 away win over Stuttgart on Saturday.

Both Lennard Maloney and Kevin Paredes were not part of the matchday rosters for their respective teams as Wolfsburg defeated Heidenheim away 3-1. Paredes has not played since August. Maloney missed this game with a hip injury. Heidenheim fell to 14th place with the loss while Wolfsburg moved to 12th.

Pellegrino Matarazzo and Hoffenheim fought Augsburg to a 0-0 draw on Sunday. The draw moves Hoffenheim out of the bottom three of the Bundesliga. But Hoffenheim has just one win in nine Bundesliga games and he might be on the hot seat unless things improve.

It was a huge moment for Damion Downs, 20, who came into the game for Cologne in the 84th minute with his team even 0-0 with Greuther Furth. Downs proceeded to score the winning goal in stoppage time on a header from close range following a corner. The 1-0 victory moved Cologne temporarily into sixth place and it was the fifth goal of the season for Downs in just 671 minutes. The center forward is making huge strides in his development this season and he is highly effective in finding the back of the net.

Downs recently played for Germany’s U-20 team in October. He represented the U.S. Olympic team in June in the final camp before the Olympics. But continued production will keep him in the USMNT player pool as he looks like an interesting prospect with his athleticism and well-timed runs. Despite representing Germany recently, his most likely international future (if he has one) is through the USA. Still, Germany’s U-21 team is not far out of reach for him.

Also in this game, Julian Green went a full 90 minutes in the loss but was his team’s best player. He worked very hard defensively and won 9/10 ground duels to go along with four interceptions. He also drew two fouls and had 69 touches. He’s a far different player than when he was a young attacker. Now he’s a complete midfielder who thrives in scrappy, physical games. Greuther Furth fell to 13th place with the loss and recent U.S. Olympic team midfielder/defender Max Dietz did not play due to injury.

John Brooks remains out injured for Hertha BSC which lost 3-1 to Darmstadt to fall outside the top 10 of Germany’s second tier.

Tim Weah remains in terrific form since returning to the wing position as opposed to right back or right wingback. On Saturday, Weah scored for the third time in four Serie A matches as Juventus defeated Torino 2-0 in the Derby della Mole.

The goal itself was being in the right place at the right time as Andrea Cambiaso made a nice run the led to a shot which was saved. Weah was then there for the rebound.

TIMOTHY WEAH WITH HIS THIRD GOAL IN HIS LAST FOUR SERIE A MATCHES ???? pic.twitter.com/18AwDF6Fos

But Weah was useful in other ways as well as he completed 19/20 passes and won his duels. Overall, it was another big step forward for Weah as Juve end the weekend in fifth place.

Weston McKennie only played the last few minutes to see out the win. His role on the team continues to fluctuate from starter to late sub. It's tough to figure out, but this game could have been the result of a rotated squad.

AC Milan remains frustratingly inconsistent this year and this last week really showed that. Earlier in the week, Milan travelled to Spain and defeated Real Madrid in a banner Champions League win. Now on Saturday, the club was forced to comeback and earn a point in 3-3 draw away to Cagliari. Christian Pulisic played again in the No. 10 role until the 82d minute when he was subbed out and replaced by his USMNT teammate Yunus Musah.

Pulisic had a big moment when his saved shot saw the rebound put in for a goal. Aside from that, it was a mixed outing. He didn't get the ball enough, but good things typically happened when he did. My take is that he is still a better winger, but he can thrive in certain moments as the No. 10.

Right place, right time for Tammy Abraham who squares away Christian Pulisic's saved shot ???? pic.twitter.com/5rRaWyeZJy

As for Musah, there wasn't too much to report on his eight minute shift. It was surprising that he didn't play more after a very good outing against Madrid.

Milan ends the weekend in seventh place.

It was good news and bad news for Gianluca Busio on Saturday as Venezia lost to Parma 2-1 at home in a matchup between newly promoted teams. The loss kept Venezia in last place with eight points from 12 games. The good news is that they are still within two points of survival.

From an individual perspective, Busio was one of the best players on the field over the course of a 90-minute outing. He was on the ball a lot (78 touches), was smooth in his passing. But for a player who has the reputation of not being great defensively, he was 5/5 tackles, won 8/12 of his ground duels, and was 2/2 in his aerials. It was overall a very good performance from Busio who might not be enough to Venezia survive, but he's performing well - better than his first stint when Venezia was in Serie A.

Kristoffer Lund’s minutes have been fading the past two months for Palermo and on Friday, Lund didn’t even play for Palermo as he went as an unused substitute in a 1-1 draw at Frosinone. The USMNT left back might find call-ups tough to come by in 2025 under Mauricio Pochettino unless things change. Meanwhile, Palermo fell to sixth place Serie B.

Andrija Novakovich, 28, scored for the second straight game to help lead Bari to an impressive 2-0 win over Salernitana. Novakovich’s 36th minute goal was a nice diving header from a low cross from the left side. The Wisconsin native now has three goals on the season. He can be very streaky, but appears to be coming into a hot streak.

Bari surprisingly looks like a contender for promotion as they sit in sixth place. Novakovich can be a big piece of the puzzle to get them there.

Mark McKenzie had another good game for Toulouse on Saturday in a 2-0 away win over Rennes. This was the club’s third win in a row – a streak which has moved them out of the relegation zone and into midtable at 10th place.

McKenzie has been part of a backline that is working well. All three wins in their streak have been clean sheets. They haven’t conceded a goal in 355 minutes. McKenzie had seven clearances in the game where he featured on the right side of a three-man backline.

The former Philadelphia Union homegrown is trending upward at the right time for both Toulouse and the USMNT. It is still early, but the move from Genk this summer to Toulouse has really been working out.

???????????????? ????'????????????????????C'est parti, bon match les Violets, nous comptons sur vous, nous sommes avec vous !#DeboutToujours ???? #SRFCTFC pic.twitter.com/g74ksNGk4J

Tanner Tessmann played the final 25 minutes for Lyon in a 1-0 win over St. Etienne on Sunday. The win moved Lyon into fifth place at the international break.

The former FC Dallas homegrown did his job playing in central midfield where he was 15/17 in passing, made few mistakes, and defended well to see out the victory. He was proactive with his passing and kept Lyon on the front foot as opposed to bunkering out the finish.

Tessmann is playing for a very good and very deep team. The progress he has made to break into a regular rotation at Lyon is impressive and he is also in a good position with his career. It is easy to see why he was called up again by the USMNT.

???? TEAM ????????#OLASSE pic.twitter.com/mF1Ir6dDYy

Caleb Wiley continues to make strides in his recovery from knee tendonitis. The recent U.S. Olympic team left back came into the game for Strasbourg in the 84th minute against Monaco at home, which was surprisingly their first sub of the game. At the time, the game was 1-1. Wiley went on to pick up a yellow card two minutes after coming on and Monaco would find two late goals for a 3-1 win. Wiley had nine touches and was okay, but the tough end to the game was disappointing.

Strasbourg fell to 10th place while Monaco will end the weekend in second place as they press forward without the injured Folarin Balogun.

Emmanuel Sabbi got the start for Le Havre on Sunday but he was on the wrong end of a 3-0 loss at home to Stade de Reims. He was subbed out in the 69t minute after all the goals were scored. He had three shots, including a 12th minute opportunity which should have been scored but instead was well-saved.

Sabbi, 26, wasn't on the wing in this game but was instead up top in a 4-4-2 formation. He wasn't on the ball a lot, but he does well when the game becomes physical as he can muscle his way to chances.

Sabbi will be important in the months ahead as Le Havre sits second from the bottom and are likely going to be in a relegation battle. They enter the break having lost their last three games. Survival is within reach but their best chance at wins are in physical games, and that's where Sabbi thrives the most.

Johnny Cardoso had a good 56 minute performance on Sunday for Real Betis in a 2-2 draw with Celta Vigo (who continue to be without Luca de la Torre). Cardoso left the game in the 56th minute as part of a double substitution with the game 1-1.

After Celta Vigo opened the scoring, Cardoso assisted on the equalizer in the 40thminute when he made a run into the box from the left side to get on the end of a line-breaking pass. He then cut the ball back to the middle of the box for Vitor Roques to finish.

Cardoso was solid across the board for Real Betis. He got on the ball frequently, kept possession with nice passing, defended well, and won his duels. Cardoso will now have momentum heading into the international break. We will see if he can finally take a bigger role with the USMNT.

Real Betis enter the international break in seventh place of La Liga.

Griffin Yow and Bryan Reynolds both went 90 minutes for Westerlo on Saturday in a 1-0 loss to Sporting Charleroi. Yow was very direct and had four shot in the game. Two of the shots forced close range chances that he would likely want back. In the 42nd minute it was with his right foot near the six yard box and in the 72nd minute it was a left-footed shot near the penalty hashmark.

Despite the saves, Yow was active and energetic. This was sharpest he has looked since coming back from his knee injury and it is easy to see him finishing these chances once he's full back in rhythm.

Reynolds meanwhile wasn't consistently dangerous getting into the attack, although he had very good scoring chance in the 85th minute. Defensively, however, he was very good to control his side of the field and win loose balls.

Westerlo fell to eighth place with the loss.

On Friday, Kahveh Zahiroleslam, 22, played the final 16 minutes for St. Truiden in a 2-1 win over Mechelen. The win moved St. Truiden into ninth place. Zahiroleslam forced a nice save in the 82nd minute with a left-footed shot from inside the box. Aside from that, he was quiet in his effort to see out the win.

Marlon Fossey and everyone else on Standard Liege will be hoping to forget Sunday’s game as they were blown out 5-0 by league-leading Gent. Other than drawing a pair of fouls, Fossey didn’t standout as his team was overrun. Standard end the weekend in ninth place and Fossey will remain in Belgium as he was not selected to play for the USMNT in November after taking part in September and October.

Jose Gallegos played the final 25 minutes for SonderjyskE on Friday in a disappointing 1-1 draw against last-place Vjele Boldklub. He was busy in his shift - winning 4/5 duels, completing 5/9 passes, and drawing a foul in the attacking half for a free kick. Still, it wasn't a good result for SonderjyskE which sits 10th in the 12-team league.

Two American players featured as Lyngby played Aalborg BK to a 2-2 draw at home on Sunday. Winger Jonathan Amon played 69 minutes for Lyngby and while he didn’t contribute to any direct chances, he was 5/8 in his dribbles as he was aggressive to keep Lyngby on the front foot. Andres Jasson came off the bench for AaB in the 77th minute but didn’t do much. Aalborg remains in ninth place while Lyngby sits 11th in the 12-team league.

Milan Iloski played the final 15 minutes for FC Nordsjaelland in a 1-1 away draw with Brondby (who were without Justin Che). He had a really good shot in the 80th minute from the top of the box that was saved. Now at the November window, Nordsjaelland sit seventh and Brondby sit sixth.

Tijuana defeated Puebla 2-1 on Sunday to move into seventh place and into playoff position. After Puebla scored the opening goal, Joe Corona equalized the game in the 60th minute and Carlos Gonzalez won it in the 13th minute of stoppage time. Corona, 34, started and played 71 minutes for Tijuana in a strong outing.

¡Los Xolos lo empatan! Gool de Joe Corona???? Xolos 1-1 Puebla ???????? EN VIVO: https://t.co/s7RHsxvMe2???? TUDN y ViX#NuestroFutbol pic.twitter.com/ad6yvT5xuv

Corona has been in and out of the lineup this year for Tijuana but it is impressive to see him still pop up and have nice moments – especially at the club where he had his professional break through. We will see if he can keep it going as the games get more important.

Cade Cowell started and played 74 minutes for Chivas Guadalajara on Saturday in a 1-0 loss at home to San Luis. He missed the target in the 74th minute with a shot but was otherwise quiet as Chivas fell to 9th place.

Alex Mendez was not in the squad for Juarez in a big 1-0 away win over Pachuca to move into 12th place.

Toluca pounded Club America on Saturday to remain in second place although Frankie Amaya did not get off the bench in the win. Alex Zendejas went the full 90 in the loss and forced a nice save in the 49th minute but was otherwise quiet. Zendejas will now travel back to the United States to join the national team.

USMNT forward Brandon Vazquez was a stoppage time wasting substitute for 5th place Monterrey in a 2-1 win over Leon on Sunday. Vazquez has a big opportunity right now as Mauricio Pochettino has said he was impressed with Vazquez in October. But if Vazquez wants to solidify himself with the USMNT, he needs to play more. The past month has seen him on the bench far too much and he might be wasting a huge chance.

Fernando Arce Jr. was suspended for 13th place Necaxa in a 0-0 draw with Atlas on Sunday.

In the Scottish Premiership on Sunday, Celtic defeated Kilmarnock 2-0 away. Auston Trusty started and played the whole game by Cameron Carter-Vickers was held out with a minor hamstring injury (although the game was played on field turf and that might have been a reason). As is typically the case when Celtic plays a non-Old Firm game in Scotland, Celtic dominated possession and chances. Trusty was rarely tested defensively. But he passed well (73/76) with almost all attempts being short range. He won a healthy amount of his duels as well. But this was a pretty typical and easy Celtic performance.

In Argentina’s Primera, Matko Miljevic started and played 65 minutes for Neell’s Old Boys in a 1-0 loss away to Gimnasia. For the former Montreal Impact playmaker, it was a step back from his last few games when he was excellent. It has been an awful season for Newell’s Old Boys which sit 27th in the 28-team league.

Staying in Argentina, Alan Sonora was an unused sub for Huracan in a 1-0 win over his former club Independiente. Hurcan remains second in the Primera although Sonora’s playing time continues to be erratic.

In Uruguay’s Primera, Mattias Fracchia was suspended for Danubio’s 2-0 away win over Rampla Juniors. Danubio remains in the top four and have conceded just four goals in 11 games. Staying in Uruguay, Florida-born winger Agustin Anelo played the last 11 minute for Boston River in a 1-0 loss to Miramar Misiones. With the loss, Boston River fell to fourth place. Anello played for the U.S. U-23 team in one camp in 2023.

In Poland’s Ekstraklassa, Danny Trejo was an unused substitute for 14th-place Korona Kielce in a 0-0 draw with Lechia Gdansk. Ian Hoffeman did not make the bench for leaders Lech Poznan in a 5-2 win for Legia Warsaw.

Staying in Poland’s top flight, 16 year old American defender Adam Basse (formerly of the NYCFC academy), played the final two minutes for Slask Wroclaw in a 1-0 loss to Gornik Zabrze. With the loss, Slask Wroclaw fell to last place of the Ekstraklassa.

In Slovakia’s Super Liga, Eduvie Ikoba was not in the squad for seventh-place Zemplin Michalovce in a 1-1 draw with second-place Zilina. Zyen Jones, meanwhile, played the last 12 minutes for FC Kosice in a 0-0 away draw at Zeleziarne Podbrezova. Kosice moved into fifth with the point.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, Quincy Butler was very dangerous again for WSG Tirol in a 2-1 loss to Grazer AK. Unlike last week when he scored the winning goal for WSG, he was not able to register a goal contribution in this game. He created four chances including a nice pass in the 38th minute that set up Valentino Muller for a shot that went high and then in the 64th minute when his cross found Muller for a header. His dribbling was effective as well and he drew four fouls, all in the attacking half. It was a bad loss for WSG as they fell to 10th place in the 12-team league and a loss against last-place Grazer is a missed opportunity.

Staying in Austria, George Bello had a strong game for LASK as he played all 90 minutes in a 2-1 win over SCR Altach to climb to seventh place. The former Atlanta United left back was on the ball a lot with 87 touches and good passing numbers. Defensively, earned positive reviews from the local media and he won 7/10 of his ground duels.

In the Swiss Super League, Konrad de la Fuente played the last 28 minutes for Lausanne in a 1-0 loss to Winterhur. The former U.S. U-20 World Cup winger had a few runs into Winterhur's box but was unable to muster anything threatening. Still, it was a bad loss for Lausanne against a team second from the bottom in the Super League.

In Norway's Eliteserien, Christian Cappis played the last 30 minutes for Viking in a 1-0 win over Kristiansund on Sunday. While he didn't stand out, it was a solid performance to see out the win to end the weekend in third place. Meanwhile, Adam Saldana was unused for 8th-place KFUM in a 1-0 loss to Stromsgodset. Just two more matchdays remain in the Norwegian season.

In the Greek Super League, Erik Palmer-Brown made the bench again for Panathinaikos is a 1-0 win over Lamia. While he went unused, it was a positive sign for him to be back on the matchday squad as he is trying find his way back from a long-term injury. Staying in Greece, Jonathan Gomez was not in the squad for PAOK in a 3-2 loss at home to rivals Olympiacos.

In Croatia's HNL, Rokas Pukstas had a rough day at the office for Hajduk Split as he got the start on Saturday against NK Istra but was unable to generate any real chances before being pulled in the 80th minute. The game ended 1-1, with Hajduk equalizing after Pukstas left the game. Despite the draw at home, Hajduk remains atop the HNL.
