WE WERE FORCED to postpone the start to our week until Wednesday and in the interest of consolidation, we combined domestic and abroad to get the ball rolling. Domestically, teams are active signing players and are in the middle of Leagues Cup against Liga MX teams.

There is a lot to break down, so let’s just get right into it.

Some people love this tournament, others hate it. I like it. Ultimately, it is good that MLS creates an opportunity for its teams to play opponents from outside its own borders. It doesn’t mean there aren’t drawbacks. Going to the well of the USA vs. Mexico rivalry (apologies to Canadian teams) has its limits – and this pushes it.

Also, the new format is a letdown. It was started because Liga MX teams bombed out of the 2024 edition leaving an all-MLS semifinal and final. The 2023 edition was an all-MLS final. The new format ensures four MLS teams and four Liga MX teams are in the quarterfinals.

That is waste. The best teams from the group stages should qualify, regardless of league. I agree that MLS should be capped at 18 teams to match it with Liga MX’s 18 total teams. But the handicapping of standings to ensure as much Liga MX vs. MLS hurts the overall competitiveness.

Anyway, here are some thoughts about 2025 Leagues Cup

The Seattle Sounders have been the best team in the tournament through two games. The almost completely unbelievable 7-0 win over Cruz Azul followed by a 2-1 win over Santos Laguna.

By now, you’ve seen the Pedro de la Vega goal against Cruz Azul – but I can’t take the chance you haven’t. It’s one of the greatest ever MLS-related goals ever. Fans want a Puskás Award nomination and they might get their wish.

This goal is ridiculous from De la VegaOff the charts degree of difficulty pic.twitter.com/FeLFMsODgp

But apart from the brilliant strike, what has been most striking about Seattle has been its variety of scoring. They’ve scored nine goals and only one player, de la Vega, has scored twice. The entire team is playing well and the Sounders have a lot of ways that can beat you. This is the team we were predicting them to be in preseason and they’re now hitting that form – despite no Jordan Morris or Paul Arriola.

The question is whether this will translate over to the regular season.

Inter Miami has one regulation – a 2-1 win over Atlas - win and one shootout win – after a 2-2 draw with Necaxa- for a total of five points out of a possible six. That’s pretty good even if their defense has been shaky.

Injury update: Leo Messi.Here: https://t.co/3vWDpkNPgF pic.twitter.com/SyibxW0lgA

But in the Necaxa draw, Lionel Messi was hurt with what is now listed as a “minor muscle injury in his right leg. His medical clearance will depend on his clinical progress and response to treatment.”

The good news for Inter Miami is that the early returns for Rodrigo De Paul are strong.

Still, Miami have a great chance to advance if they can defeat Pumas in regulation by multiple goals.

Tuesday saw a few teams play their third game and right now, Columbus ( 7 points) Seattle (6 points), Portland (6 points), and LAFC (6 points) would advance. But the following teams have one game remaining: Miami (5 points), Minnesota (4 points), LA Galaxy (4 points), New York Red Bulls (4 points), Orlando (4 points), Cincinnati (4 points). Theoretically, Real Salt Lake and Colorado are alive at 3 points, but it is unlikely.

Everything we do, we do together ????Thank you, Black & Gold Family, for your support throughout the entirety of Phase 1 ? pic.twitter.com/bZz52HRQPN

Overall, MLS execs are probably going to like their final four – especially if Miami advances.

The Liga MX standings are seeing a wipeout of top teams. Club America, Monterrey, Cruz Azul, and Chivas are already eliminated. Toluca is through and likely Pachuca as well. Tigres is done playing at 6 points. That makes them vulnerable to Juarez, Pumas, and Necaxa.

Max Arfsten has been playing very well lately for the Crew and on Tuesday night he scored his second goal of the Leagues Cup tournament in a 1-0 win over Leon. Columbus became the first MLS team to secure a quarterfinal spot.

Arfsten has been the subject of transfer rumors and Middlesbrough and Toulouse have both submitted bids. But Columbus does not want to sell Arfsten midseason. But will teams still be interesting in January?

If this is the end of the road for Max Arfsten with Columbus, he’s finishing strong. 2nd goal of the Leagues Cup and this one puts Columbus up 1-0 on Leon #USMNT pic.twitter.com/kh2Fb6p5nl

Moving forward it will be important to observe if Arfsten plays more as a winger or as a left back. He is much more effective as a left winger and it also allows him to not be in as many critical defensive positions.

We’ve seen a lot young American players in MLS take advantage of opportunities at Leagues Cup – which has been promising to see.

Taha Habroune had two assists for Columbus in the 3-1 win over Puebla. Always considered a top prospect, Habroune is finally getting on the field lately and he is making the most of his opportunities over the past six weeks. He is surging into the U-20 World Cup (if Columbus releases him).

Taha Habroune is having himself a game. 2 high quality assists already as Columbus leads Puebla 3-1Another U.S U-20 player impressing heading into the World Cup in September. Habroune has been involved in every camp this cycle pic.twitter.com/YflN46CCqF

Gerardo Valenzuela continues to be an important player for a Cincinnati team that is among the best in the league. The 20 year old from Florida picked up an assist in the 3-2 win over Monterrey and then started in the 2-2 draw with Juarez (which ended in a shootout loss). He’s never been highly rated nor a U.S. youth international, but he’s increasing his stock with good play.

Benja Cremaschi: it was good to see the U.S. U-20 midfielder wear the captain’s armband in the second half of the 2-2 draw (later a shootout win) over Necaxa. On a team full of veteran stars, he is a respected as a youngster. He’s likely the U.S. U-20 captain.

Homegrown ©? Benja with the captains armband during our Leagues Cup match against Necaxa ???? Another special moment ???? pic.twitter.com/muavkjK6yM

David Vazquez: While San Diego is eliminated, David Vazquez impressed in his first two games for the club. Specifically in the 2-0 win over Mazatlan on Tuesday where he picked up an assist.

Pedro Soma: Also made his debut for San Diego in the win over Mazatlan and he played the final 28 minutes, completing 37/37 passes.Alex Freeman: the new USMNT right back might be young and adjusting to his first season as a first-team starter, but his athleticism is impressive an makes people believe in his upside. This was a great run out of the back and into the attack for an assist in a 3-1 win over Atlas.

Good shift for #USMNT right back Alex Freeman off the bench for Orlando. - 2 minutes after coming on, he assists in the goal that puts Orlando ahead of Atlas in the Leagues Cup.- Orlando wins 3-1 pic.twitter.com/UFJU9icUfu

Thomas Müller needs no introduction. A World Cup winner with Germany, Müller has 150 Bundesliga goals in 503 appearances all with Bayern Munich. He’s scored 45 goals for Germany in 130 caps. Müller, 35, has now decided to leave Germany and Europe all together and join Vancouver – after all the nonsense such as having to buy his “discovery rights” from Cincinnati for $400,000 in GAM.

Vancouver has been a good team and will now look a lot different with Müller as well as the looming return of Ryan Gauld. Head coach Jesper Sørensen as a lot of pieces, and it won’t be easy to get them to work tougher.

"Let's do something special together." Müller is officially a 'Cap! Rep your club with the Peak Jersey, available at the Whitecaps FC Store in Gastown (385 Water St). ????#VWFC x #TM13 pic.twitter.com/y9zudsAXvN

But the potential upside is that Vancouver can win MLS Cup with its talent. The downside is that they could just as easily fall on their face.

As has been rumored for a long time, Son Heung-min finally signed with LAFC from Tottenham, where he spent the last 10 years.

It is a massive move that makes Son one of the most expensive players in the history of MLS.

"I’m incredibly proud to be joining LAFC, a club with big ambitions in one of the most iconic sports cities in the world," Son said. “Los Angeles has such a rich history of champions, and I am here to help write the next chapter.

BREAKING: LAFC sign Heung-Min Son from Spurs for £20m ???? pic.twitter.com/XcwlQ24noc

"I’m excited for this new challenge in MLS. I have come to L.A. to lift trophies and give everything for this club, this city, and its fans. I cannot wait to get started."

At first glance, the move seems well worth the investment. On jersey sales and endorsements alone, LAFC will come out a financial winner.

On the field, LAFC should only be expected to continue to dominate even after Steve Cherundolo’s final year as the head coach. LAFC is ambitious and this shows that.

Imparable ????‍???? pic.twitter.com/VF21EUX58x

Meanwhile, LAFC defeated Tigres 2-1 behind a great game from David Martinez. After a win over Club America in the Club World Cup play-in game, LAFC has posted some big wins over Liga MX. But unfortunately, LAFC needs many Liga MX teams to win tonight in order to advance.

But the introduction of Son is the top story of the day, by far.

Heading overseas, let’s break down the news.

Tim Weah has officially joined Marseille after terms were finally agreed with Juventus. The deal is a €1 million dollar loan for the coming season followed by a €14 million obligation to buy and €3 million in bonuses. There is also a sell-on clause.

Bienvenue à Marseille ???????????????????????????? ???????? pic.twitter.com/17jvlUGHpw

George Weah has accompanied his son to Marseille for the announcement (Weah’s medical is on Wednesday). The elder Weah made the final stop of his European career at Marseille.

Overall, it’s a great move for Weah because Marseille is spending money on him that reflects an intent to play him. Hopefully he returns to the wing, where he is better, but he should be ready to help on several levels.

Gio Reyna is still in limbo as Borussia Dortmund are insisting on €11 million and Parma raised their last offer to €8 million but are reluctant to go higher. Reyna is seen as a nice piece for Parma but is not critical.

Chances are the deal still gets completed but time jeopardizes everything. There is always the risk that Parma moves on and finds another player. The fact that no other offers are knocking suggests that Reyna really needs to get this deal done or else he is in the abyss.

Thus far in Milan’s preseason, Yunus Musah’s form has simply not been good. He’s struggled with bad turnovers and his final product continues to lag. A goal in a 9-0 romp over Perth Glory doesn’t change that. Now there are reports that Napoli is back in play for Musah. Napoli was in the hunt for Musah earlier in the summer but later walked away from the high price tag.

Il @sscnapoli torna su Yunus Musah: la situazionehttps://t.co/S6gyWhJoo0

Why would Napoli get back into the market if Musah isn’t playing well? The likely reason is that Napoli believes they can get him at a lower price. If Musah appears to be falling out of favor at Milan, Milan can’t ask a lot for him and might simply want to take what they can get and move on. If Musah stays and hardly plays, his value will be very low in January.

There is also interest from Nottingham Forest, but Musah might not be seen as a starter at Forest. He might prefer staying in Italy.

Kristoffer Lund, 23, has moved to FC Koln on a season-long loan from Palermo that includes an option to buy. The left back will now join the newly promoted Bundesliga club and finally get his taste of being in a top five league.

Lund is coming off a Serie B season with Palermo where his playing time became more sporadic in the second half of the season. This is a good move because it gets him out of a stagnating situation.

Japanisch kann dir bestimmt Ragy beibringen, Kristoffer ????___#effzeh pic.twitter.com/HCkQEi3z54

For the national team, he’s been out of favor under Pochettino who didn’t even include him on the preliminary roster for the Nations League. At this point, getting into the picture for the World Cup seems unlikely.

But it’s a good move. The big question is whether Koln will play in a way that allows him to get forward into the attack. Newly promoted teams can struggle.

In the 2.Bundesliga opening weekend, the biggest game from an American perspective was Paderborn’s 2-1 win over Holstein Kiel. What was peculiar about this game is that John Tolkin played well at left back in the loss while Santiago Castaneda didn’t play well in the win.

A lot is on the line for both American players as Tolkin is on the bubble of the USMNT and needs to play well to move inside. Despite the loss, he should thrive in the 2.Bundesliga and be among the best left backs in the league.

Castaneda, 20, is hoping to build off a season where he moved from a fringe player on the border of the professional level to a solid 2.Bundesliga player for a good team. The defensive midfielder from Tampa is still mostly unknown but another good season could put him into a place where he starts to gain a lot attention.

Also in the 2.Bundesliga, Greuther Furth defeated Dynamo Dresden 3-2. Max Dietz went the full 90 minutes in the win while Julan Green was subbed out in the 90th minute. The former USMNT attacker created a number of chances in the win.

Newly promoted Arminia Bielefeld defeated Fortuna Dusseldorf 5-1 after Fortuna was reduced to 10 players in the first half. Arminia’s American captain Mael Corboz assisted on the team’s first goal. New Jersey-born forward Isaiah Young subbed into the game in the 86th minute for Arminia.

Johann Gomez played the last 31 minutes for Eintracht Braunschweig in a 1-0 away win over Magdeburg.

In Belgium, Westerlo defeated Zulte Waregem 3-1 with both right back Bryan Reynolds and right wing Griffin Yow both impressing after an ugly 5-2 loss to Anderlecht in the season opener.

The two combined nicely on the opening goal in the first minute when Reynolds won the initial ball and Yow showed fantastic skill in a direct play forward before scoring. Yow was just 3/10 in passing in his 60 minutes but had three shots and a goal.

Both players are potentially on the move but time is getting short. Westerlo would love to cash in as both players have reached their top value at a small club such as Westerlo.

Eintracht Frankfurt wrapped up its preseason tour and the club featured four American players.

Marvin Dills scored in the team’s 5-2 win over Louisville and impressed. But as a 2007-born player, he is still in the youth system but don’t rule out a loan or maybe even a Bundesliga debut later in the year.

Timmy Chandler is wrapping up his career and is on a one-year deal. He almost seems like an player/coach at this point.

Nene Brown dumped cold water on any potential USA call-up in the near future. He is focused on life with Germany’s U-21 team and their full national team after that.

Paxten Aaronson is coming off a great loan from FC Utrecht – who would love to have him back for another year. At one point Dino Toppmöller seemed to indicate Aaronson was in his plans, but the preseason rotation doesn’t make that clear.

James Sands went 90 minutes for St. Pauli in a 2-2 draw with Coventry. He’s a player who has a better chance of making the USMNT World Cup team that many are overlooking. Sands spoke about this after the game.

"The World Cup is a big dream of mine, especially because it's taking place in the US,” Sands told St. Pauli’s website. “It would be great to be a part of it, but there's a long way to go. I'm focusing on making a good start to the season. I want to grow as a player, it's the reason I moved to the Bundesliga. The standard is higher here and I'll have a better chance of being called up to the national team if I get a lot of playing time. There are lots of good players in the States, but I think I have a good chance."

Johnny Cardoso made his first appearance for Atletico on Sunday when he played the second half of a 1-0 loss to Porto (with the goal coming at the end of the first half).

The reviews from the local media were very positive for Cardoso who played the pivot very well as he won possession and got the ball into the attack. All of this bodes very well for Cardoso having a starting role at the beginning of the La Liga season.

Tanner Tessmann played 81 minutes for Lyon in a 2-1 preseason loss to Bayern. Now wearing the No. 6 for the club, it was a good shift for Tessmann who looks like a starter heading into the Ligue 1 season.

Rokas Pukstas played the final 11 minutes for Hajduk Split in its 2-1 win over Istra 1961 in the HNL opener. The club as a new coach, but Pukstas is still not playing much and it is a concern for the once highly rated USYNT player.

Cameron Carter-Vickers wore the captain’s armband for Celtic in its Premiership opening 1-0 win over St. Mirren. Nothing too much to take away other than Celtic controlled the game. Auston Trusty, meanwhile, only was subbed into the game in the second half and came in as a left back.

Matthew Hoppe scored for SonderjyskE in a 3-2 win over Nordsjaelland – coming off the bench in the 60th minute and breaking a 1-1 draw in the 69th minute. Ever since his breakout for Schalke as a teenager, his career has been adrift – with unsuccessful stops in Spain, the USA, Middlesbrough – before trying to reboot himself in Denmark with a small Superliga team in SonderjyskE.
