UNITED STATES national team manager Gregg Berhalter today announced a 24-team roster that will face both Wales and Panama during the upcoming window. The roster is entirely based of foreign-based players and camp will open on November 8 in Wales.

The first game will take place on November 12 in Swansea when it will take on Wales. Then it will relocate to Austria for a neutral matchup against Panama.

This roster contains many surprises. The biggest is Valencia midfielder Yunus Musah who has represented England at the youth level but was born in New York City and then raised in Italy.

Among the 24 players on the roster, 10 players are uncapped and 19 are age-eligible for the U.S. U-23 team for the 2021 Summer Olympics in Tokyo.

This will mark the first time in a year where the U.S. team has had its European-based players at its disposal.

GOALKEEPERS (3): Ethan Horvath (Club Brugge/BEL; 4/0), Chituru Odunze (Leicester

City/ENG; 0/0), Zack Steffen (Manchester City/ENG; 17/0)

DEFENDERS (7): John Brooks (Wolfsburg/GER; 38/3), Reggie Cannon (Boavista/POR; 10/0),

Sergiño Dest (Barcelona/ESP; 3/0), Matt Miazga (Anderlecht/BEL; 18/1), Tim Ream

(Fulham/ENG; 40/1), Chris Richards (Bayern Munich/GER; 0/0), Antonee Robinson

(Fulham/ENG; 7/0)

MIDFIELDERS (6): Tyler Adams (RB Leipzig/GER; 10/1), Johnny Cardoso (Internacional/BRA;

0/0), Richard Ledezma (PSV Eindhoven/NED; 0/0), Weston McKennie (Juventus/ITA; 19/6),

Yunus Musah (Valencia/ESP; 0/0), Owen Otasowie (Wolverhampton/ENG; 0/0)

FORWARDS (8): Konrad de la Fuente (Barcelona/ESP; 0/0), Nicholas Gioacchini (Caen/FRA;

0/0), Christian Pulisic (Chelsea/ENG; 34/14), Uly Llanez (Heerenveen/NED; 1/1), Gio Reyna

(Borussia Dortmund/GER; 0/0), Josh Sargent (Werder Bremen/GER; 12/5), Sebastian Soto

(Telstar/NED; 0/0), Tim Weah (Lille/FRA; 8/1)

The addition of Yunus Musah, 17, to the camp is another list of impressive dual nationals who have joined the ranks of the U.S. program in recent years. With the addition of Sergino Dest in 2019, Berhalter has added some players who have a real future.

Musah is an outside midfielder who is extremely athletic and made huge strides in Arsenal’s academy. Last weekend, he scored his first La Liga goal for Valenica. In the past he has played for England’s youth national teams.

It remains to be seen if Musah is fully on board with the U.S. program or is using this camp just to evaluate it as he makes a decision. But even if he is not yet fully committed, it is a positive sign that the U.S. has made a strong enough impression to at least begin the discussion and get its foot in the door.

Musah’s ties to the United States are slim. He once said in an interview that: “I was only born in America because my mom went there on holiday.” This doesn’t mean that ties can’t be strengthened as he continues to play for the United States – as it has done for players like Aron Johannsson, Mix Diskerud, Terrence Boyd. But every player is different and it will be interesting to see how he evolves.

Gioacchini, Otasowie, and Cardoso

Many of the uncapped players on this roster have extensive experience with U.S. youth national teams – players like Richard Ledezma, Chris Richards, and Sebastian Soto.

On the flip side, Nico Gioacchini, Owen Otasowie, and Johnny Cardoso both made the team with very limited experience. SM Caen attacker Nico Gioacchini made the team and has never represented the United States at any level. Cardoso, 19, meanwhile appeared with the U.S. U-23 team just once last year. Otasowie, 19, has attended just a few minor camps at the youth levels.

Gioacchini is a key player for SM Caen as it looks to earn promotion this year into Ligue 1. He gives the U.S. team options across the front line as he can play center forward and either wing.

Cardoso, meanwhile, is a defensive midfielder who plays at Internacional – the current Brazilian leaders and one of the biggest non-European teams in the world. Right now, the U.S. team is thin in defensive midfield behind Tyler Adams and Cardoso could be part of the solution.

Otasowie is also a defensive midfielder but can play central defense as well. His name has come up before and he is certainly a player that the staff has spoken highly of. His Premier League debut seems to be coming sooner than later as he has made the bench twice for Wolves this season.

There were a few notable omissions on this roster and it’s worth mentioning.

Aron Johannsson is one of the most notable as he is scoring goals in droves in Sweden. While he will turn 30 this month and has a huge injury history, he is playing well and might have been seen as a more immediate option.

Erik Palmer-Brown is doing well with Austria Vienna although central defense is crowded at the moment. That is also the likely reason why Cameron Carter-Vickers has also been left off

Emmanuel Sabbi has also been impressing in Denmark with OB although the winger position is a bit unsettled.

Duane Holmes has been in the discussion for awhile although he has struggled to start the season with Derby County. The same can be said for Tyler Boyd who is in a rough situation at Besiktas.

Julian Green was also left off despite having played well at times for Greuther Furth. His position is pretty free-ranging and might not exist on the current U.S. team.

Andrija Novakovich is also doing well for a Frosinone team that is hoping to earn promotion to Serie A. Combined

Moving forward it is a good roster for Berhalter. At this camp he can bring in a bunch of young players to evaluate and see where they are at this stage of their careers.

There are many players that are still not earning first team minutes and are not in the best club situations. These players are well known: Uly Llanez, Tim Weah, Owen Otasowie, Johnny Cardoso, Konrad de la Fuente, Richard Ledezma and even Chris Richards all have very minimal first team club the past two seasons. Sebastian Soto is doing well but is playing at a low level in the Dutch second tier.

That is a big chunk of the roster and these players will eventually need first team minuets (possibly on loan) on a regular basis as the games become more important. For a camp like this, however, the standards can be relaxed a bit and players can be evaluated and at least have the knowledge they are in the mix moving forward.
