THE 2025 SUMMER TRANSFER window is well open and while there haven’t been any major announcements yet, this summer should be a busy one for American players on several levels – moving within Europe, moving from domestic teams from foreign teams, and moving abroad back to domestically.

In addition to the various destinations, it is equally important to look at why players are transferring. There are some players who are playing so well that they are forcing moves to bigger teams. Then there are players who are struggling and must move to find a better situation. There are also players who are now out of contract and will move on a free transfer. Finally, you have players who are seeking loans to aid in their development or are returning to parent clubs after a loan.

This window, there are American players who fit into all of these categories.

Here is a partial list of players who could be on the move with an explanation of why they could be moving and what type of landing spot should be expected.

Antonee Robinson: The Fulham left back and captain is the biggest American player to watch this summer as he recently completed a stellar season where he was considered by most to be the best left back in the Premier League. An offseason surgery (that kept him off the Gold Cup roster) is a concern but he is expected to be ready in August and big clubs, such as Liverpool (who are reportedly interested) will still be looking. Good left backs are always in demand.

Malik Tillman: The widely reported club is Bayer Leverkusen and the pricetag could be very high. Tillman was an expensive purchase for PSV from Bayern Munich and it was a risk that paid off big time. Tillman helped PSV win two titles and advance to the knockout stages of the Champions League. PSV develops great talent and sells them for profit. Tillman is the latest is a very long line and now it looks like he will return to his native Germany to play for a big Bundesliga club.

Johnny Cardoso: The U.S. national team midfielder should be signing for Atletico any day now in what will be a blockbuster move for the USMNT midfielder who has skyrocketed from Internacional to Real Betis to Atletico Madrid in quick succession.

Tim Weah: It was reported this past week that Weah is not in the plans of Juventus coach Igor Tudor. That will have Weah looking for a new club, but he’s done well enough at Lille and Juve where it shouldn’t be a problem. Even if he is not a lock starter, he is good off the bench and can cover in several positions. Expect him to remain in a top league, but a good bet could be on him returning to France. Olympic Marseille is now interested, but will French teams (many of whom are struggling for cash now) find the money to buy?

Why OM wants Tim Weah… in Saturday L’Equipe. pic.twitter.com/cTNAvboVKY

Gio Reyna: One of the most disappointing transfer sagas is that of Gio Reyna. Sure, a move might finally get him a chance to play regularly but the reality is that he might have to drop a few levels to get it. The latest reports are that there wasn’t much interest in the top of the Eredivisie. The reality is that Reyna hasn’t played much over the last four seasons, his behavior at the 2022 World Cup is known, and he will turn 23 in the first half of this upcoming season and it's a "young player” anymore. It’s almost as if it doesn’t matter where he lands, if he plays wherever he lands. It’s tough to predict where his landing spot will be.

Josh Sargent: Sargent is back in Norwich as the club’s preseason begins but there is a lot of talk he could be on the move. A recent Kicker article specifically mentioned Wolfsburg and it would be interesting to see Sargent return to Germany, where he began his pro career. Norwich’s asking price could be an issue because selling Sargent hurts their promotional hopes, but Norwich’s parachute payments from the Premier League end this year and selling Sargent is their best way to generate cash. Sargent has a real chance of moving up this summer and the Bundesliga makes a lot of sense.

Yunus Musah: Reports in Europe suggest that Musah could be on the move this summer – or at least AC Milan will think about it. Such reports are believable because Musah didn’t have a good season in 2024/25, Milan struggled, and two coaching changes have altered the team’s system. Musah has a lot of strengths as a player but he also has some clear weaknesses at the highest level. His dribbling is elite, he has a great attitude, but he doesn’t have a great shot or a final pass to set up teammates, his defense is inconsistent, and he is prone to costly turnovers. He’s also turning 23 this year and as he gets older, it will be tough for him to correct his weaknesses. It is reported he is on his way out. Right now, Wolves and Nottingham are interested but other Serie A clubs have pulled out.

???? @Gazzetta_it: Napoli have pulled out of the race for Musah. At the moment, there are no advanced negotiations only interest from the Premier League, such as that of Nottingham Forest. pic.twitter.com/t0oVcniCyN

Griffin Yow: The former DC United homegrown winger has excelled at Westerlo in Belgium for the last two seasons. That climb paved the way for him to make the 2024 U.S. Olympic team. But Westerlo is a small club and the chance of it being able to keep a good young player for over two seasons is slim. The question is where does Yow land? Without an EU passport, the Eredivisie is very unlikely. Germany, the Championship, or to the top teams in Belgium are most likely.

Bryan Reynolds: the former FC Dallas fullback is in a similar situation as Yow, both are similar ages and both are at Westerlo. Reynolds has been a steady right back in Belgium but his background with Roma has also made him expensive. But he also has a similar value and similar potential landing spots as Yow.

Gianluca Busio: Since arriving at Venezia from Sporting Kansas City, Gianluca Busio has been part of a yo-yo experience in Italy. With Venezia relegated out of the top flight in May, Busio might seek more stability. Such a move, however, might see him land at a place where he’s not a consistent starter.

Rokas Pukstas: The former U.S. U-20 midfielder had a tough season last year with Hajduk Split. Club officials went on record stating Hajduk was trying to sell him last summer but deals never materialized. Over the course of the season, Pukstas only had a limited role and his value likely plummeted. But now Gennaro Gattuso is out as Hajduk’s manager, but it isn’t clear if the club wants to move him. This preseason will reveal where Pukstas stands.

Patrick Agyemang: The USMNT and Charlotte FC forward is reportedly the target of Derby County in the Championship – which seems like a good move for Agyemang to play to his strengths as a player. The best guess is that a deal gets done.

Diego Luna: Unsurprisingly, Luna is now the subject of transfer rumors from clubs in top leagues. It makes sense given that he has had a good year for both club and country. Plus, Mauricio Pochettino has been very vocal in his support of Luna and that will only help drive interest. If Real Salt Lake was a contender, perhaps it would be able to keep Luna through the end of the season. But the club’s struggles only increase the likelihood of an earlier move.

Alex Freeman: The Orlando City SC right back is only in his first season as a starter and still has a lot to learn. His elite athleticism and the fact he started at the Gold Cup will drive interest but staying in Orlando for now might be in his best interest as it gives him an opportunity to play and develop.

Peyton Miller: There has reportedly been interest in Miller in recent months and it is easy to see why. He is one of the best American teenagers in the game and is now in his second season as a starter for New England. But at 17, he cannot make the move yet. Still, a move and a loan back to the Revs could be an option. A deal might happen sooner than later, but Miller shouldn’t be in any hurry either as time is on his side.

Jonathan Tomkinson: The former U.S. U-23 defender was recently with Norwich City but had been on loan to various lower division teams in England and most recently to Ross County in Scotland. Ross County was interested in making it a permanent move, but the club’s relegation changed that. Now Tomkinson is out of contract but the likelihood is that he lands in the third or fourth tiers of England.

Kahveh Zahiroleslam: The former St. Truiden forward had a good first professional season in Belgium after arriving from Yale University, but he struggled last season, and the club did not offer him a new deal. If he wants to stay in Europe, he might struggle to find a top-tier destination. Otherwise, he might return stateside.

Lynden Gooch: The versatile attacking mid/wingback wrapped up his time with Stoke City last year after the club avoided relegation out of the Championship. Following the season his contract ended and both sides said a new deal was not happening. As of now, he is still assessing his options. A return to the states could be possible, but he has been in England ever since starting a family and those are factors that will determine his destination. He’s 29, so he easily has a few more years left.

???? Former Sunderland star 'weighing up options' after Stoke City departure#SAFC https://t.co/sFz4Qf765v

Alex Mendez: The former USYNT star is now a free agent after leaving Juarez in Liga MX last season. Unfortunately for Mendez, he has yet to find a place where he can play regularly after stops in Freiburg, Ajax, Vizela, and Juarez were unsuccessful in the end. The 2018 U.S. Soccer Young Male Player of the Year will now look to find a place to play. He turns 25 in September.

Paxten Aaronson: has returned to Eintracht Frankfurt after a great loan to Utrecht in the Eredivisie where he played well consistently. But now eyes will be on him to see if he is ready for a Champions League caliber club. If preseason doesn’t work out with Eintracht, Utrecht will surely take him back in a heartbeat. Either way, the younger Aaronson brother is in a good position.

Charlie Kelman: last year, Kelman won the Golden Boot in League One while on loan with Leyton Orient. But now he returns to his parent club, Queens Park Rangers, in the Championship. After scoring 21 goals last season in league play, he should be in a great position to compete in the second tier.

https://t.co/qCFNRBUU8j pic.twitter.com/XU5JPKreV7

Bryang Kayo: The former U.S. U-17 defensive midfielder has bounced around Germany’s lower tiers and reserve teams in recent seasons without much success until last year when he did well in the 3.Liga. Now he has moved to OH Leuven, which finished 10th last season in Belgium’s top tier. It should be a nice step up for the Maryland native who is still just 22.

Jonathan Amon: Last season, Amon, 26, scored four goals for Lyngby in the Danish Superliga, but the club was ultimately relegated. Despite that setback, he found a new club in the Superliga in Vejle Boldklub – who overtook Lyngby at the end of the season to avoid the drop.

Den dynamiske kantspiller Jonathan Amon ankommer til Nørreskoven på en toårig aftale. 26-årige Amon er købt fri Lyngby. Læs mere i VB-appen og på hjemmesiden. #VejleB #sldk #transferdk pic.twitter.com/grFGKcBsIZ

Richard Ledezma: Despite earning Champions League experience and playing a lot last season for PSV Eindhoven, Ledezma opted to sign for Chivas de Guadalajara this summer – despite PSV wanted to sign him to a new deal. Part of this is likely money (and with Ledezma’s injury history, financial matters are magnified) but part of this is that he will likely play as an attacking midfielder with Chivas compared with the right back role he had at PSV (and with Sergino Dest back, it likely meant a backup role). All of that is understandable, but it seems likely that switching his international allegiance to Mexico is likely with his move to Chivas.

Pedro Soma: the U.S. U-20 defensive midfielder was recently at Barca Athletic (second team of Barcelona) on loan from Esportiva Cornellà but the loan ended after the season and Barcelona announced that Soma would return to Cornellà. But Cornellà is based in the fifth tier of Spain and Soma has dreams of playing in the U-20 World Cup. He will likely try to push for a bigger move this summer.
