HAPPY THURSDAY to everyone in American soccer. Happy to say ASN will be returning to having a morning update on most sites where we briefly cover a lot of the major stories, with some being flushed out in more detail in bigger pieces. As we return to normal after the Olympics, now seems like a good time to start with MLS on a Leagues Cup break, the transfer window going, and more European leagues.

Also of note, coming this week are our season previews by countries.

Before we get there, let’s break down the news.

We’ve talked a lot about this move, but Tim Ream has been transferred from Fulham to Charlotte FC in what should be the final move of his playing career. He’s been an outstanding statesman for the game. After playing for the New York Red Bulls during the 2010 and 2011 seasons, he left for Bolton in January 2012 but was unable to help them avoid relegation.

He then developed his game in the Championship. Despite Bolton’s struggles, he was named the team’s Player of the Season his final two seasons at the club. Then in 2015 he embarked on a nine-year career with Fulham who he helped to two promotions into the Premier League (in 2020 and 2022).

Ream, 36, joins a Charlotte FC team that was bounced early from Leagues Cup but is sitting respectably in fifth place of the Eastern Conference. He will likely make his Charlotte debut against his former club, the New York Red Bulls, on August 24th.

LAFC rolled past Austin FC 2-0 despite that Austin surprisingly won its group with wins over Pumas and Monterrey. Even in the loss, Austin played well but ultimately didn’t have the talent to compete with LAFC. The question is whether Austin can continue to play well after the long layoff until MLS play resumes. They’re sitting 10th.

Meanwhile, LAFC is awaiting the debut of Olivier Giroud – who watched the game with Will Ferrell. Now there are reports LAFC is trying to sign Antoine Griezmann. It would complete a French connection with Hugo Lloris in goal.

Also on Wednesday, Pumas defeated Vancouver 2-0 to move into the Round of 16. Can’t argue with Max Bretos here. Chino Huerta has been the tournament’s best player for Pumas.

Cesar “Chino” Huerta goal and assist for @PumasMX Best player at @LeaguesCup thus far.Next big Mexican ???????? star ?????pic.twitter.com/iU4oolgrZG

They’ll now play the winner of the Galaxy and Sounders which play Thursday night. While the game is in Seattle, the Galaxy should be favored with the form that they’re in. Right now their top players of Riqui Puig, Gabriel Pec and Joseph Paintsil are all just in great form. Seattle’s Pedro de la Vega continues to miss key time.

Another good game worth watching is Inter Miami vs. Toronto. Everyone is hoping Inter Miami continue to play well despite the ongoing absence of Lionel Messi. But they should have Luis Suarez, Diego Gomez, and Benja Cremaschi back for this one.

The Philadelphia Union have continued to be aggressive with big signings from the team’s academy. In 2024, the team has added U.S. U-20 attacking midfielder David Vazquez, and blue-chip prospect Cavan Sullivan, who is just 14.

On Wednesday, the Union signed CJ Olney, 17, who has already made his first team debut with Philly this summer but will now have a homegrown deal. Olney is also expected to contend for a spot on the 2025 U.S. U-20 World Cup team. He has scored 8 goals and added 15 assists in 39 MLS Next Pro appearances.

Fiorentina are looking to bolster their squad with big influx of midfielders. Right now, it could be a huge presence of Americans.

First there is Amir Richardson, who is on Morocco’s Olympic team and is on the verge of joining Fiorentina. He is the son of former NBA star Micheal Ray Richardson. Then there is Tanner Tessmann, who is still in the mix.

Now you have Weston McKennie as a third target. McKennie had a good first 75% of the season with Juventus last year, but he was benched after Max Allegri left as the manager. Then he had a poor Copa America.

Positive talks between #Juventus and #Fiorentina for Nico #Gonzalez (asks a salary of €3,6M/year) and Weston #McKennie (#Juve have given the green light for the sale and Viola are now working to convince the midfielder). Nico’s price tag: 30M. #transfers @violanews https://t.co/RbYDSz7T9q

McKennie is not a player everyone rates highly, but when he has a manager who believes in him, he can be very good. McKennie needs this deal because if it falls through, he could be in a tough position to make a move before the deadline.

For McKennie, he also needs to get back into a rhythm so he can impress the next USMNT manager. His poor performances at the Copa was one of the team’s biggest disappointments.

Adams: “Ruthless” USMNT manager needed

Tyler Adams went on Men in Blazers and said the next USMNT manager needs to be “ruthless… and willing to put everyone in their place.”

That is a huge statement, but it matches what I have been saying for awhile. The problems are with the personnel. The problem with Gregg Berhalter is that he tried to roll with the same team for a long time. Even if players weren’t playing well, they were called-up and had the same role. Adams himself started despite injuries robbing him of almost all of the past 14 months before the Copa America. Gio Reyna was a starter despite rarely playing. Complacency then set in.

It's was a big statement from Adams that was also an indictment of the players. It almost seems as if the national team was too relaxed. Was work ethic a problem? Did bad habits go uncorrected?

As I said on the radio recently, the USMNT is far removed from needing a manager who has won trophies. That seems to be a point of emphasis. This team needs a manager who stops the bleeding. These managers are often hired in relegation battles. Before the team can win, it needs to believe, respect itself, and hold itself accountable. Winning right now is much further down the path than where the team is now. The steps that come before having a contending team are what is most important.

But one of the things that might end up happening is players we have seen as “locks” the past few years might end up getting dropped.

What ultimately makes the best team is not always the best collection of individuals.
