THE WEEKEND AND THE start of the week has seen a wave of news where it is hard to keep up. On the field, it was a mostly a slow weekend for Americans in Europe with the exception of Tyler Adams return and the forward tandem of Ricardo Pepi and Folarin Balogun continuing to play well. In MLS, the top story is young American players breaking through at impressive rates. Then there is U.S. Soccer, that is now without its Sporting Director.

For now, we will start with the federation.

The big story to hit this week came on Tuesday when federation sporting director Matt Cocker resigned from US soccer, effective immediately. Fox Sports revealed that Crocker would take the same position within Saudi Arabia’s federation.

The news is an unwelcome distraction for US soccer as it prepares to host the World Cup. Crocker’s departure is unlikely to make any impact on the team at the tournament. Right now, Mauricio Pochettino is in full control of the teams selection, preparation and tactics at the World Cup

The real impact is what happens after the World Cup. All the focus right now is on this summer, but the 2023 cycle begins in just a tad over three months. At that point, the team will be moving on with a new set of goals, but who will be the coach? Pochettino’s contract ends after the World Cup.

Matt Crocker is leaving his position as U.S. Soccer’s sporting director with immediate effect to take a similar role with Saudi Arabia, sources told @ByDougMcIntyre pic.twitter.com/Me5eg4Hqtz

There are a lot of decisions that have to be made. The federation will need to hire a sporting director before it can hire a new coach. Then the sporting director will have to also hire an Olympic coach. Also, will the U.S. national team take part in the 2028 Copa America? If so, who will lead those negotiations.

In the past, friendlies after the World Cup were announced before the World Cup. Right now, there isn’t anything planned after this summer.

Then there are issues deeper in the weeds. What will the budget for a new coach be? Will the benefactors who help pay Pochettino's salary still be involved? Will they have a say?

With the new headquarters being in Atlanta, and so many vacancies to fill, it just seems like we are going to be looking at a very different federation in just a few months.

Tyler Adams made his first appearance for Bournemouth since March 3 when he came on for the final 20 minutes of Bournemouth’s stunning 2-1 upset win over Arsenal away in London. It was 1-1 when he came into the game and at the time, Bournemouth was just looking to escape with a point. Adams was then on the field for Alex Scott’s 74th minute winner.

Overall, Adams did exactly what was asked and needed from him. He broke up plays in the midfield, shielded the backline, and was disruptive presence. With the ball, Adams was simple. He only had 12 touches and was just 6/8 in passing. But Adams is there to make life miserable in the midfield for opposing teams and this showed how good he can be, even if just for 20 minutes.

The U.S. team missed him terribly in March and it remains critical he be able to go 90 minutes at the World Cup.

Folarin Balogun scored for the ninth time in nine games for Monaco but his club’s supporters won’t be celebrating much as Monaco fell to Paris FC 4-1. The loss snapped Monaco’s seven-game winning streak in league play.

Balogun’s goal in the 36th minute showcased the best of his skillsets as he ran behind the Paris FC backline to get on the endo of a great through-ball and finish calmly.

Balogun is in great form and it is exciting to watch. The concern for him is that for him to be at his best, it requires a tremendous amount of chemistry with his teammates who know his runs and how to get him the ball. Does this chemistry exist on the U.S. team?

It’s tough to say.

Also, can he do it against an opponent that likes to sit deep in a low-block? That requires a skillset that might be better for Ricardo Pepi.

Staying with Ricardo Pepi, he got the start for PSV against Sparta Rotterdam after the team clinched the title midweek when Feyenoord failed to win. Pepi’s goal came just before halftime when he headed home a Gus Til cross from close range. PSV ended up winning 2-1.

Ricardo Pepi kopt piekfijne voorzet van Guus Til binnen! ????#spapsv pic.twitter.com/6ZC67AwfhB

For Pepi, he now has 11 goals in 1086 Eredivisie minutes. He also has three more goals in the Champions League.

It will be interesting to see how PSV uses Pepi the remainder of the season with nothing to play for. He remains an extremely valuable asset that could fetch them around $40 million, based on offers from Fulham. Playing Pepi keeps him sharp, but it also risks injury.

It’s tough to also know what is best for the USMNT. He can be injury prone, but he also needs to play. PSV has decisions to make, the first being whether they can now accept a deal given that the championship is already won.

Estadio Azteca reopened after having been closed for renovations for the World Cup. Fittingly, the first game in the reopening was Club America against Cruz Azul, the two most popular and successful teams from Mexico City.

The game finished 1-1 but the first goal was scored by Patricio Salas and it was assisted by U.S. national team hopeful Alex Zendejas.

Futbol in Azteca is back as Club America host Cruz Azul#USMNT hopeful Alex Zendejas assists to Patricio Salas for the opening goal pic.twitter.com/EwvYk3OH2G

Zendejas has likely been on the outside of the roster bubble as he was left off the team for the March window. But plays like this might give Pochettino something to think about. Zendejas has a great left foot, can play a variety of positions, and he can create goals with dangerous crosses.

Will this get him on the team? Only Pochettino knows but Zendejas certainly raised his stock with a big game in front of 100,000 people.

Leeds United travelled to Old Trafford on Monday and came away with a 2-1 win over Manchester United. Noah Oakfor scored both goals for Leeds United with Brenden Aaronson assisting on the second goal with a header back to Okafor, which he volleyed home.

Brenden Aaronson with an “assist” Couldn’t have done it without him #USMNT pic.twitter.com/l9VoieDIw6

Aaronson ended up playing 86 minutes and was once again a very useful part of the equation on both sides of the ball. His effort level is never in question and he could be someone the U.S. team needs at the World Cup.

As mentioned, most of the news this weekend wasn’t great for Americans in Europe.

Christian Pulisic’s dip in form is the single biggest news story around the national team and he wasn’t able to snap his goal-contribution that now extends back to December. Pulisic was one of Milan’s better players on the day, but that isn’t saying much. Right now, he needs goals and assists. Milan fell to third with the result.

The rest of Italy was a dud for Americans. Weston McKennie was suspended for Juventus in a 1-0 win over Atalanta. Also in that game, Yunus Musah’s disastrous season continued as he went unused, again. Benja Cremaschi remains out injured for Parma.

In Serie B, Gianluca Busio and Venezia saw their promotion hopes stumble with a 1-1 draw with lowly Virtus Entella. Venezia’s grip on automatic promotion shrunk to three points. Jonathan Klinsmann allowed two goals past him as Cesena lost to Juve Stabia 2-0. Cesena is now only two points clear of the playoff line. Andrija Novakovich played 19 minutes off the bench for Reggiana, who won 2-0 over Carrarese but are still in the relegation zone). Both goals were scores before Novakovich entered the game.

In France, it was marginally better considering Balogun’s goal.

Mark McKenzie was sent off for Toulouse in a 4-0 loss at home to Lille. At the time it was just 1-0 and McKenzie committed a foul as the last defender just before halftime. Tanner Tessmann played just the last eight minutes for Lyon in a 2-0 win over Lorient and both goals were scored before he entered the game. Tim Weah had an uneventful 90-minute shift at right back for Marseille in a 3-1 win over last-place Metz.

In the Premier League, things were a little bit better as Chris Richards was solid in a full 90-performance as Crystal Palace defeated Newcastle United 2-1 thanks to a late penalty. Antonee Robinson went 70 decent minutes in a 2-0 loss away to Liverpool, which is a tough assignment.

In the Championship, Aidan Morris played well but Middlesbrough continued its skid in a 1-0 loss to Portsmouth. Boro simply cannot finish its chances the past two months and at this point, automatic promotion is out of the picture. They’ll be lucky to hold onto a playoff berth. Meanwhile, Haji Wright and Coventry will be promoted soon, but they could have wrapped things up with a win over last-place Sheffield Wednesday. Instead they settled for a 0-0 draw with Wright playing for 67 minutes. He hasn’t scored since March 7.

In the Bundesliga, it was more bad news for Americans.

Malik Tillman was limited to just being a time-killing sub for Bayer Leverkusen in an impressive 1-0 win away over Borussia Dortmund. His season has been lackluster considering the price paid for him. He has six goals and no assists. Five of the goals have come against relegation battling teams. Meanwhile, Mathis Albert made the bench for BVB although his debut will wait.

Augsburg played Hoffenheim to a 2-2 draw. Noahkai Banks was unused for Augsburg and Cole Campbell was unused for Hoffenheim. Banks is still slowly returning from an injury and Campbell has had a miserable season, starting with the U-20 World Cup.

Damion Downs was unused as well. He failed to get off the bench for Hamburg in a 4-0 loss to Stuttgart. Lennard Maloney also failed to get off the bench for Mainz in a 1-0 loss to Freiburg.

Joe Scally had a decent 90 minute shift for Borussia Monchengladbach in a 1-0 loss to Leipzig but Gio Reyna, yet again, did not get off the bench as he heads into an offseason loaded with questions. Kirstoffer Lund started for Koln but was pulled at halftime in a 3-1 win over Werder Bremen. Lund was likely subbed out due to tactical adjustments after Werder Bremen was reduced to 10 men in the first half.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Santiago Castaneda and Paderborn are now four points clear of automatic promotion following a 4-3 win over Magdeburg. Castaneda was suspended for the game.

John Tolkin was subbed out of Holstein Kiel’s 2-1 win over Fortuna Dusseldorf in just the seventh minute. He left the game visibly upset. On Monday, Holstein Kiel announced Tolkin injured a ligament in his inner knee and would miss time.

John Tolkin hat ieber Spiel bei Fortuna Düsseldorf eine Innenbandverletzung im Knie zugezogen, die konservativ behandelt wird. Damit wird der 23-jährige uns in den nächsten Wochen nicht zur Verfügung stehen.Wir wünschen dir eine iebere Genesung, ieber John! ????_#KielAhoi pic.twitter.com/LF2cS1G9Sf

This could be seen as good news as it is not his ACL, which would have kept him the rest of the calendar year. But this should have him back sooner.

Does it rule him out of the World Cup? We don’t yet have enough information. He was part of the November roster and started against Uruguay. But he was likely outside the picture as it stands now. One injury, however, could have changed that.

Javier Mascherano announced on Tuesday that he was stepping down as Inter Miami’s manager for personal reasons. The timing comes just as the club was starting to struggle. Over the weekend it played the Red Bulls to a 2-2 draw at home. This comes weeks after it was bounced from The Champions cup by Nashville.

Personal reasons is tough to believe when it was announced that the entire coaching staff was also stepping down. Guillermo Hoyos will lead the team on an interim basis.

One thing is for certain, Inter Miami will spend money on its next head coach. It did not come this far to land messy and build this brand new stadium to not have proper leadership.

CF Montreal fired its head coach, again. This time it was Marco Donadel who was dismissed. Without speaking of the job Donadel did during his time in Montreal, it was an impossible task. The organization is a mess and has had more coaching turnover than any other team in MLS, NHL, MLB, NBA, or the NFL. That points to organizational problems, not the coach.

Montreal desperately needs to make decisions that give the club a direction and continuity. Right now, no one cares about this team. That is disappointing because at odd times when Montreal plays well, it is a fun environment with a fanbase that wants to support this team.

The top story in MLS in the first three months of the season has been the surge of young players who are playing well with eye opening performances. That continued again over the weekend and it is great to see.

Julian Hall: The 18-year-old picked up two assists for the New York Red Bulls in the 2-2 draw against Miami. It was an eye-opening performance from Hall who showed a more in-depth understanding of the game in being able to find teammates and spot runs. He is another player surging into the new U-20 and Olympic cycle.

Great start to the season for Julian Hall continues. Gets the assist here while taking on 2 Miami defendersHall seems likely to be the starting U.S U-20 forward this cycle pic.twitter.com/7FQDXmV7eM

Adri Mehmeti: fresh after his 17th birthday, Mehmeti continued to start for the Red Bulls and scored the team’s second goal. Even when he struggled in the ugly loss to Charlotte, Michael Bradley as stuck with him in the starting lineup and he looks like an impressive talent.

Forsberg send a low free kick into the box and lets a pair of American teenagers do the restJulian Hall to Adri Mehmeti. These two kids are having a huge game against Miami pic.twitter.com/3qS349Sw9k

Jude Terry: The U.S. U-20 midfielder got the start for LAFC against Portland. And while LAFC was rotating its squad due to the Champions Cup, Terry showed very well and scored one of the best goals in the league for the week.

17-YEAR-OLD JUDE TERRY WITH A BANGER FOR @LAFC ???????????? pic.twitter.com/w6Xb2JPLYQ

Luca Bombino: Along with Gozo and Hall, Bombino is one of the best young Americans in the league this season. The San Diego FC looks ready for big things right now and offers from European teams should be arriving this summer. But Bombino should be ready to have a big part on the Olympic team.

The great start to the season for young Americans continues - now it’s Luca Bombino with a great volley for SDFCPreseason, I picked Bombino as the #2 young American in MLS (behind Gozo). Feeling good about thatBombino should be the Olympic team LB pic.twitter.com/dZH2PloBvq

Taha Habroune: The Columbus Crew midfielder/forward Taha Habroune did not have the U-20 World Cup he hoped but still remains a good prospect and he should be in the mix for the Olympic team. This was a nice assist on Sunday in a 1-1 draw with Orlando. It took nice vision to find Diego Rossi via a chip.

Lovely goal….The chip assist from Taha Habroune to set up Rossi. Good stuff pic.twitter.com/sUlaDc7PJG

Niko Tsakiris: The San Jose attacker is finally starting to play like the attacking midfielder he was projected to be. Tsakiris has been in great form this season to help lead San Jose’s turnaround. This was a great assist on Saturday night.

I’ve been waiting g for Niko Tsakiris to break out, for a few seasons. Look like it’s finally happening. Great game last week, and a solid assist here pic.twitter.com/8WQgR4Mru1
