THE UNITED STATES U-20 team is currently in Spain for a November camp where it will face South Korea on November 16 and France on November 18 in a pair of friendlies. The roster contains most of the top players of this age group at this time and this camp will provide a very tough test for head coach Marko Mitrovic and his team.

The roster consists of 22 players and is evenly split between MLS-based players and European-based players at 11 each (although Kristian Fletcher is now abroad, but is on loan from DC United). In total, 14 players return from the October camp but the eight newcomers include top players such as Cole Campbell, Josh Wynder, and Matai Akinmboni.

But the team is well experienced at the biggest youth international stages. Benja Cremaschi participated at the 2024 Olympics. Wynder and Niko Tsakiris represented the United States at the 2023 U-20 World Cup. Seven players (Adam Beaudry, Noahkai Banks, Taha Habroune, Keyrol Figueroa, Peyton Miller, Paulo Rudisill and Pedro Soma) represented the United states at the 2023 U.S. U-17 World Cup.

Each of those 10 players were part of U.S. teams that advanced out of group play and into knockout stages.

Here is the roster along with some thoughts.

Goalkeepers (2): Adam Beaudry (Colorado Rapids; Castle Pines, Colo.), Julian Eyestone (Brentford/ENG; Dallas, Texas)

Defenders (8): Matai Akinmboni (D.C. United; Upper Marlboro, Md.), Reed Baker-Whiting (Seattle Sounders FC; Seattle, Wash.), Noahkai Banks (Augsburg/GER; Dietmannsried, Germany), Leo Duru (Blackburn Rovers/ENG; Manchester, England), Aiden Harangi (Eintracht Frankfurt/GER; Reston, Va.), Ethan Kohler (Werder Bremen/GER; Campbell, Calif.), Nolan Norris (FC Dallas; Fort Worth, Texas), Joshua Wynder (Benfica/POR; Louisville, Ky.)

Midfielders (6): Benjamin Cremaschi (Inter Miami CF; Key Biscayne, Fla.), Taha Habroune (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Brooklyn Raines (Houston Dynamo FC; Chicago, Ill.), Paulo Rudisill (Feyenoord/NED; Irvine, Calif.), Pedro Soma (Barcelona/ESP; Coconut Creek, Fla.), Niko Tsakiris (San Jose Earthquakes; Saratoga, Calif.)

Forwards (6): Luke Brennan (Atlanta United FC; Atlanta, Ga.), William Campbell (Borussia Dortmund/GER; Peachtree City, Ga.), Keyrol Figueroa (Liverpool/ENG; Warrington, England), Kristian Fletcher (Nottingham Forest; Bowie, Md.), Peyton Miller (New England Revolution; Unionville, Conn.), Ruben Ramos Jr. (LA Galaxy; La Puente, Calif.)

If the U-20 World Cup were starting this month, this would be extremely close to the best team. Mitrovic would have to add a third goalkeeper and then cut two field positions to fit the World Cup roster requirements, but this is indeed very close to how things stand now.

This doesn’t mean that things can’t change. Playing time and performance at clubs are a driving factor as well as performances with the U.S. U-19 team. That team is almost a U-20 backup team for players on the younger side. The U.S. U-19 team has had separate camps during the international windows and the top performers from that team can push for U-20 call-ups in 2025.

There is also January camps, which will allow Mitrovic to dig deeper into his player pool.

The 2025 U-20 World Cup doesn’t begin until late September. Over that time, there will be several new players breaking into first team environments. Those extra few months will change a lot.

The timing of that tournament too will also require a deeper player pool that normal because getting club releases will be even more difficult.

But as of now, this roster is very close to the top team.

In terms of players not on this roster but who reasonably could be here, the list is short. Diego Kochen is the most obvious absence, but he is missing due to a surprise call-up to the full national team. The Barcelona Athletic goalkeeper will still likely be with the U-20 team in 2025.

Also in the goalkeeping pool, it was moderately surprising that Gavin Beavers was not included on this team as he played significantly for Real Salt Lake’s first team.

Noah Cobb didn’t get the call this camp, but the Atlanta United central defender is not far from being a regular with this team. It also helps him that his team is still alive in the playoffs and he is a first team contributor (albeit most as a substitute).

Marcos Zambrano’s also did not get the call for this camp and that was surprising given the brace he scored last camp during a 3-0 win over Chile. Aidan Dausch meanwhile shifted down to the U-19 roster compared with this camp.

Obviously, the team will try to play well and win, but establishing a pecking order this early in the cycle will be useful to build chemistry and set the proper order for roster competition as new players emerge and some players inevitably fade, as is normal in youth soccer.

There are only a few “lock starters” for this team right now. I can’t envision any scenario right now where a top starting XI for this team doesn’t include Diego Kochen, Josh Wynder, Cole Campbell, and Benja Cremaschi. But building the starting lineup around these players and preparing for alternative scenarios if any of these players are injured or not released is of critical importance.

There are also formation options as well. We also don’t know if new USMNT head coach Mauricio Pochettino will try to have the youth teams mirror his plans for the first team? That hasn’t been answered yet. This camp might see Mitrovic try different formations to see how his team fits. Will it be a normal 4-3-3 or will he also try to utilize a 4-2-3-1 as has been used by Pochettino? With several attack-minded fullbacks on his roster, he might also consider a 3-4-3 or another formation that uses wingbacks. Having a variety of ways the team can play could be a point of emphasis from Mitrovic.

This camp seems to be a mark in the cycle where the U-20 team shifts from player identification to team building. This doesn’t mean that new players can’t break into the mix, but it seems like Mitrovic has his top team right now. Now its also about building an order amongst that roster.

Leo Duru: The Blackburn Rovers right back made his USA debut in October. He impressed despite knowing nobody on the team. He has tougher competition in this camp as Reed Baker-Whiting is also vying for the starting right back job. But Duru made a good first impression in October, now we will see if he can build on that.

Matai Akinmboni: the DC United centerback along with Noahkai Banks are the favorites to start alongside Josh Wynder. But the difference with Akinmboni is that he has first team minutes with DC United and is rumored to have serious transfer interest. Wynder is the leader of the backline, but there is also the possibility he isn’t released for the World Cup next year, which will come at a tricky time. If Wynder isn’t released, Akinmboni could then become the leader.

Cole Campbell: the Borussia Dortmund winger had a great camp in March. This will be his second U-20 camp, and now he arrives with first team minutes Dortmund. The expectations on him at this level will be high.

Luke Brennan: The Atlanta United winger is one of the more under-the-radar players on this team but could be favored to start along with Campbell on the wings. He is certainly one to watch.

Pedro Soma: The Barcelona product is a central midfielder who is gaining some attention and is a player to watch in this tournament. Being in the youth or academy levels for a big club doesn’t guarantee USYNT success (far from it), but the recent reports about Soma from Spain are positive.

Niko Tsakiris: The attacking midfielder is one of two players in the pool who played up a cycle at the 2023 U-20 World Cup. Expectations should be elevated for Tsakiris, although the 2024 season in San Jose was tough for everyone involved.

Peyton Miller: the New England Revolution left back is the youngest player on the squad at 16 (he is playing up a cycle – along with Ruben Ramos Jr.). He deserves a lot of attention after earning a substantial number of first team minutes, with more highs than lows. Now he will get to take part in his second U-20 camp.

The U.S. U-19 team will also have a camp in November. Michael Nsien called up 24 players for a camp in Florida. This team consists mostly of players born in 2006 and 2007. The players born in 2007 are eligible for the 2027 U-20 World Cup and have more USYNT eligibility ahead. The players born in 2006 are more urgently trying to break into the current U-20 team as it is their last USYNT eligibility (aside from the 2028 Olympics).

On this roster, 11 players were born in 2006, 12 were born in 2007 and one was born in 2008 (Nimfasha Berchimas).

Here are just a few notes on this team.

GOALKEEPERS (2): Zackory Campagnolo (Colorado Rapids; Fort Myers, Fla.), Andrew Rick (Philadelphia Union; Berwyn, Pa.)

DEFENDERS (9): Andrew Baiera (New York City FC; Darien, Conn.), Stuart Hawkins (Seattle Sounders FC; Fox Island, Wash.), Jose Magana Jr. (LA Galaxy; Long Beach, Calif.), Harbor Miller (LA Galaxy; Brea, Calif.), Neil Pierre (Philadelphia Union; Hersey, Pa.), Jackson Platts (Orlando City SC; Jacksonville, Fla.), Owen Presthus (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Chibuike Ukaegbu (Sacramento Republic FC; Roseville, Calif.), Oscar Verhoeven (San Jose Earthquakes; Pleasant Hill, Calif.)

MIDFIELDERS (7): Matthew Corcoran (Birmingham Legion FC; Dallas, Texas), Diego Garcia (FC Dallas; El Paso, Texas), Colin Guske (Orlando City SC; Saint Johns, Fla.), Cruz Medina (San Jose Earthquakes; San Francisco, Calif.), Santiago Morales (Inter Miami CF; Weston, Fla.), CJ Olney Jr. (Philadelphia Union; Hillsborough, N.J.), David Vazquez (Philadelphia Union; Los Angeles, Calif.)

FORWARDS (6): Nimfasha Berchimas (Charlotte FC; High Point, N.C.), Aidan Dausch (Coventry City/ENG; London, England), Caden Glover (St. Louis City SC; Columbia, Ill.), Zavier Gozo (Real Salt Lake; Eagle Mountain, Utah), Mykhi Joyner (St. Louis City SC; Bloomington, Ill.), Jonathan Shore (New York City FC; New York, N.Y.)

There are some promising names on the roster. Zavier Gozo and Neil Pierre are two of the better 2007-born players in any USYNT right now although I think the only path to the 2025 U-20 World Cup next year is if there are issues getting players released.

Aidan Dausch made his U.S. debut last month where he played with the U-20 team. He was unfamiliar with anyone on the team, and now he is with the U-20 team. He could be a player who gains steam as he becomes more familiar with the USYNT setup. He has been impressing with Coventry’s U-21 team, has already made his Championship debut with the first team, and is on the cusp of making the full team on a regular basis.

Matthew Corcoran hasn’t been with a USYNT since the 2017 U-20 World Cup last December. He has been dealing with injuries. He will have a tough time breaking into the U-20 team, but again, release issues could be a bigger problem this year and that keeps him relevant.

CJ Olney and David Vazquez are also players who aren’t far from the U-20 team. The Philadelphia Union duo is promising and it will be interesting to see how the departure of Jim Curtin will affect their development with Philly.

It was somewhat surprising not to see Dino Klapija (RB Leipzig) and Jykese Fields (Hoffenheim) as both forwards were very productive in October with the U.S. U-19 team. But with youth players, there are always other factors at play – such as letting players remain with their clubs during international windows to boost their case of breaking into the first team, or part of negotiation with clubs to grant releases for future camps.

Despite those absences, Nisien’s roster is strong. It helps expand the current U-20 player pool to give it depth and it starts to build the foundation for the next U-20 cycle for the 2027 World Cup.
