THE WEEKEND AHEAD in American soccer will see the number of actually meaningful games in Europe decrease but on the domestic front, MLS teams are coming into the middle of the season and we have a better idea of which teams are legit, which ones aren’t, and who has something to play for.

In Europe, it’s been a tough season for Americans compared with previous years. There has been far more injuries and, for a variety of reasons, the number of Americans actually playing regularly in the “Big Five” European leagues is a step behind. The season will most likely end with John Brooks as the only American player in a “Big Five” league to eclipse 2000 league minutes in the 2021/22 season.

As we end the season, Weston McKennie, Sergino Dest, Gio Reyna, Josh Sargent, and Chris Richards are all injured among Americans playing in the top leagues.

Then there is just a wave of Americans struggling for minutes. Tyler Adams has seen his Leipzig minutes tumble the second half of the season. Yunus Musah’s minutes are also inconsistent and tough to predict at Valencia – but at least he’s playing more centrally. Zack Steffen never plays and the same could be said of Nicholas Gioacchini at Montpellier, and Matthew Hoppe at Mallorca.

There is also the relegation. Josh Sargent and Norwich are relegated. The same is true for Julian Green and Greuther Furth. This weekend will also see the likely relegation of Gianluca Busio and Tanner Tessmann when their last-place Venezia team hosts Bologna in Serie A. Matt Miazga fits into two categories as he doesn’t play for a Deportivo Alaves team that is also going to get relegated.

Aside from Brooks, there aren’t many success stories inside the top five Euro leagues. Tim Weah’s season at Lille is very much up and down. He’s eclipsed the 1000-minute plateau for the first time in his career (league minutes only) at Lille but has yet to score. His performances have been up and down but he’s done well in recent weeks. McKennie was playing very well prior to his injury. Despite the discontent at Chelsea, Christian Pulisic’s numbers this season are decent. The biggest surprise, however, has been Erik Palmer-Brown who has done very well at Troyes since Ligue 1 resumed from winter break.

The European Leagues outside of the top five have brought about more success. Brenden Aaronson and Salzburg have already wrapped up the Austrian Bundesliga and the Austrian Cup, so their game this weekend against Wolfberger isn’t relevant. Jordan Pefok is running away with the Swiss Super League Golden Boot despite a disappointing season for Young Boys. Tim Ream and Antonee Robinson have led Fulham to promotion and this weekend will end their season (although there are injury concerns for Robinson). Cameron Carter-Vikcers and Celtic should wrap up the Scottish Premiership title this weekend. Haji Wright his on a massive scoring wave in Turkey and both he and CCV should be on the USMNT roster for at least a portion of June. Genk’s Mark McKenzie and Royal Antwerp Sam Vines are also looking to qualify for the Conference League out of Belgium.

There are also struggles, as Tyler Boyd and his Rizespor team should be relegated this weekend. Scotland has a load of players but outside of CCV, it’s mostly struggles. In Denmark is rough, Jose Gallegos is also looking at relegation, Emmanual Sabbi scored yesterday to help OB advance to the Danish Cup final, but his OB team is also near the bottom of the relegation standings. Christian Cappis has begun playing for Brondby but a loss this weekend to Copenhagen would be the club’s eighth in a row. In Sweden, Joe Gyau at Degerfors and Joe Corona at GIF Sundsvall play for the two worst teams in the league.

Heading into this weekend, the top stories in Europe will all center around those fighting relegation/promotion, for a spot in Europe, or for an individual milestone. The rest is kind of quiet at this point.

Domestically, it is looking at the American-friendly teams in MLS who also look like playoff contenders.

Here is what I am watching.

From an American perspective, this game is going to be very interesting in MLS. The Seattle Sounders are coming off one of the most emotional and important moments in league history after defeating Pumas in the CONCACAF Champions League final at home in front of 68,000 people.

But Brian Schmetzer has to put that behind him. Seattle’s prioritization of the Champions League has seen the club get off to a lackluster start in MLS (seven points, seven games). They have to reverse that quickly and make up the games-in-hand they have. Seattle cannot afford the fate of Toronto in 2018 – who advanced to the CCL final, lost in a shootout, and fell well short of the playoffs.

Seattle should have a bunch of heavily motivated players. Jordan Morris and Cristian Roldan are USMNT players on the edge of the final roster. Both were instrumental in the CCL title and both should be ready to make an impact. Stefan Frei is being talked about as a potential USMNT keeper after he won the tournament’s best player. Then you have Obed Vargas – the 16-year-old central midfielder who is on the U.S. U-20 team and will now be asked to play a bigger role for Seattle after the long-term injury to Joao Paulo.

This game, however, could see even more Americans involved as Kelyn Rowe subbed into the final in the first half and played well at left back. Will Bruin is a good backup forward. Youngsters Daniel Leyva, Josh Attencio, and Reed Baker Whiting should also contribute with the Paulo injury.

Then there is FC Dallas, which has shown a lot of improvement under new head coach Nico Estevez with relevant Americans playing important roles. Jesus Ferreira is one of the top goalscorers in MLS this season with six goals. Paul Arriola has fit into the FC Dallas system on the wings. Paxton Pomykal looks the healthiest and fittest he has in years to remind everyone why he was such an important American prospect.

FC Dallas has 16 points from nine games to sit in fourth place but now they have to take on a talented Seattle team that needs points and is emotionally spent. This should be fun.

Last weekend, Troyes came up with huge 3-0 victory over Lille that was surprising in that each of the goals came via a penalty and Lille were reduced to nine players by the end. Now with three games remaining, Troyes has created a five-point gap between itself and the relegation playoff spot.

Erik Palmer-Brown has been one of the very few surprising performers this season among Americans in the top five leagues of Europe. He has cemented a starting spot in Troyes’ central defense and has helped move the team in the direction of safety. That effort has put him on the edge of the U.S. national team.

This Sunday, EPB will get the chance to defend against a PSG team that is extremely talented, but who has also won the Ligue 1 title and might rotate its squad. A good performance from EPB could help finalize Troyes’ survival and it only boosts his CV at a time when a central defense roster spot for the World Cup will be tough to come by.

Last weekend was brutal for Jesse Marsch and Leeds United. Not only did the American head coach see his Leeds United team fall to Manchester United – which was expected – but he also saw his effort to keep Leeds United complicated by Burnley winning its third straight and Everton pulling a surprise upset over Chelsea.

The result is that Leeds United sits just two points ahead of Everton for the Premier League’s last safe spot. Everton has played one fewer game.

This is also the middle of the toughest three-game run for Leeds. After Manchester City, Leeds visits Arsenal on Sunday, and then hosts Chelsea next week. An upset result would be enormously helpful for Marsch, who has done well but who is seeing results not go his way.

Cameron Carter-Vickers and Celtic FC could clinch the Premiership title on Saturday when they host Hearts. Three games remain in the Premiership season and Celtic has a six-point lead on Rangers along with +19 goal differential advantage. Celtic will win the Premiership and it’s just a matter of when. A win on Saturday combined with Rangers failing to beat Dundee United on Sunday will seal the title.

Carter-Vickers, 24, has been terrific this season for Celtic in the Premiership and is coasting towards his first ever Championship (his first season in Scotland after six loans within the Championship. Carter-Vickers is putting himself in a great position for not just a USMNT call-up this summer (which should happen) but also to a point where a team will have to spend a lot of money to meet Tottenham’s asking price.

The Eastern Conference leaders visit the Western Conference leaders on Saturday in the league’s top matchup this weekend. The last time these teams met in California, it was an epic 3-3 draw in the final game before the COVID-19 shutdown in 2020.

Philadelphia Union have had a tough schedule – on the road at Nashville last weekend to open Geodis Park and now heading to LAFC. Head coach Jim Curtin continues to do a good job but his team is still adjusting to new forwards Mikael Uhre and Julian Carranza. At some point Curtin will start to significantly integrate the U.S. U-20 trio of Paxten Aaronson, Jack McGlynn, and Quinn Sullivan more heavily but that might not happen before the CONCACAF U-20/Olympic qualifying in June. For now, they still have a strong American contingent of Alejandro Bedoya as the captain, Nathian Harriel as the right back, and Leo Flach is the No. 6.

LAFC is managed by former USMNT right back Steve Cherundolo who has helped to return LAFC to being among the league’s elite behind Carlos Vela in the attack. It’s been quite the turn around for the California-based club and this will be a good matchup between two American-coached teams.

This is going to be a telling game for Leipzig, which is mired in a brutal stretch. The club has lost its last two Bundesliga games and was bounced by Rangers from the Europa League in stunning fashion on Thursday. The league results have seen Leipzig fall into fifth place in the Bundesliga – one spot behind Freiburg for the last Champions League spot. Leipzig needs a result in this one to get back into the UCL spots.

Tyler Adams was an unused substitute in the Rangers loss as well as last weekend’s 3-1 loss to Borussia Monchengladbach. The USMNT defensive midfielder could be in line for a start as he is rested and his team has tanked with him on the bench. It could be a great opportunity for him.

Then there is Ricardo Pepi. It has been a really tough transfer for him since arriving at Augsburg in January. With 10 Bundesliga appearances for 443 minutes, he has yet to score – even despite his team moving successfully away from relegation. His spot on the national team has also come into question. Any opportunity he gets is a valuable chance to reverse the trend.

It’s been an up and down first season in Europe for Sam Vines who started the season with a broken collarbone and then a few runs on the bench. But he’s ending his season playing well ad Antwerp is pushing for a spot in the top three.

Meanwhile, Vines is also pushing for a spot on the USMNT. The backup left back spot is up for the taking and the fact that Antonee Robinson might have offseason surgery makes it more of a priority.

With four games remaining, third-place BSC Young Boys has little to play for. It will likely finish second or third and qualify for the Conference League qualifiers. It’s four-year run as the Swiss champs is over as Zurich has clinched the title.

It’s all about Jordan Pefok winning the Super League’s Golden Boot. Right now he sits atop the table with 22 goals (27 in all competitions) with a four goal lead. That will likely give him a stronger resume to get another shot in a Top Five European league after his time in Ligue 1 with Reims didn’t work out. Despite struggling during the March window, continued scoring in Switzerland will make his case stronger to return to the national team.

Austin FC is off to an unexpectedly strong start in the 2022 MLS season with 20 points from nine games and a league-high 22 goals scored. The schedule has been soft, but the Galaxy should offer a stronger test for Josh Wolff’s side. Sebastián Driussi has been the best player in the league so far in 2022 and he will have to continue to play at a high level.

Gregg Vanney’s Galaxy has done well considering the shortcomings of designated players Kevin Cabral and Douglas Costa who are expected to provide attack from the wide positions.

It’s the second and third teams in the West facing off and serious questions face both sides. It should be revealing.

Four games remain in La Liga’s season and Yunus Musah is looking to end his season with momentum. He’s been in and out of Valencia’s lineup with 12 La Liga starts and 13 sub appearances but has been playing more of his preferred central role and last season.

Athletic Bilbao is eight points better than Valencia and should be a tough test for Musah and company. This is good competition not just for him in La Liga, but it is excellent World Cup preparation if he is going to be one of the team’s starters.

Three games remain in the Eredivisie season and Heracles is eight points clear of relegation. A result against Willem II secures that. Luca de la Torre has been a work horse for Heracles and has been one of the team’s few bright spots. It would not be surprising if he is named the team’s player of the season.

De la Torre needs to pad his stats in the remainder of the three games because he is ready for another challenge – likely further up the chain in the Eredivisie. Despite his success, he only has one goal and no assists this season. Last place Willen II offers him a chance to open up the game and contribute to goals.

Christian Pulisic has had decent numbers for Chelsea when healthy but the last two sub appearances (about 20 minutes a piece) were a struggle – as they were for many Chelsea players. It’s a negative environment at the club but Pulisic is always a player to watch from an American perspective and Chelsea will look to wrap up a Champions League spot for next year. They have a five game cushion and four of their five remaining games are at home.

Some have speculated about Pulisic’s future at Chelsea (his father’s tweet last week raised the issue) but it is an open question. Of course, it would be helpful for Pulisic to end the season with a bang to help raise the asking price.
