THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL team won its opening game of the 2025 Gold Cup on Sunday over Trinidad & Tobago by a comfortable 5-0 scoreline. The game will definitely not erase the criticisms that have engulfed the team over the past year, but sometimes a convincing win – even against a bad team – can spark a change. Whether that is the case in Sunday’s win remains to be seen and will be answered in the coming weeks.

The problems with the USMNT over the past year have been widespread and complicated. The team hasn’t played well in major tournaments and friendlies on home soil, under two different coaches, and often with very different rosters. Many of the team’s problems seem mental. Games get away from them quickly (like against Switzerland or Colombia last year) and they haven’t responded well to adversity, such as after Tim Weah’s red card against Panama at the Copa America. But another constant theme is that the performances from the team have typically been far less than the sum of its parts.

In the win over Trinidad & Tobago, the team played well. Playing well against a bad team can be tricky and favored teams can sometimes play down to the level of the opponent. That did not happen in this game. The USMNT came out strong and put the game out of reach early. Then it was just a question of seeing the game out.

In the 16th minute, the U.S. moved in front when Patrick Agyemang forced a turnover from Trinidad & Tobago, played it out wide for Jack McGlynn who then crossed to Malik Tillman for a close finish.

The 9th international goal for Brenden Aaronson! ???? pic.twitter.com/wryLRHkU4W

Then just before the half, the U.S. scored twice to put it out of reach. A bad Alvin Jones backpass played Diego Luna into an attacking position and the Real Salt Lake attacker crossed to find an on-rushing Malik Tillman for an easy finish. Minutes later, Luna then got into another dangerous position and his shot deflected off Agyemang for a goal.

The second half was uneventful for the end when Brenden Aaronson and Haji Wright came off the bench for goals. Each time, Max Arfsten played the players into attacking positions on the wide right side and both were able to dribble past a demoralized Trinidad & Tobago defense for shots they would convert.

Cutback ?? Back of the net ?? @HajiWright pic.twitter.com/ILn2dyH8fZ

Following the game, the theme was confidence. The win was easy, but does this team have confidence now?

“Today’s game was also a difficult one, especially because of the negative things that happened in recent weeks,” head coach Mauricio Pochettino said. “Some results that haven’t gone well always generate a bit of noise, right? It’s important for the players to have that confidence.”

If this game made the team positive and confident, then it will be an important win. If this result was just the first step in getting back to form, then that will also make this game significant. It will take some time, however, until we learn whether this game helped turn things around.

Here are some thoughts on the game.

Diego Luna was the MOTM for this game. When the game was close, he was the player who was making the plays to take Trinidad & Tobago out of it early. Luna enjoyed a complete performance as he was 46/50 in passing, won his duels, and frequently advanced the ball into dangerous positions.

Tillman scores a 2nd and it’s 2-0. Assisted by Diego Luna and Alvin Jones

Pochettino needed to dominate this game and Luna delivered. That is only going to help the coach to trust him even more, leading up to the World Cup. He continues to do a lot to ensure that he is part of the plans moving forward.

Yes, Tillman’s two goals were from close range and were set up by McGlynn and Luna, respectively, who did the heavy lifting for the scores. But the quality of Tillman’s performance wasn’t in the goals, it was in many of his other plays where he helped create chances and he combined well with others.

McGlynn to Tillman, 1-0 pic.twitter.com/20vHT0SpAv

It was productive for the team because until now, Tillman hasn’t come close to playing for the USMNT at the level he plays with PSV or Rangers prior. Since joining the program from Germany, Tillman hasn’t looked comfortable or a fit with the USMNT. In this game, he was working very well with others (especially Luna) and making purposeful runs into the box.

For Tillman, he will hopefully build on this to finally get some needed comfort with the team.

The USMNT wasn’t tested defensively. Chris Richards and Tim Ream completed a combined 150 passes as they were able to quickly get the ball forward into the attack. For these experienced defenders, it was a walk in the park.

There is a bit more to break down from the fullbacks. Max Arfsten still plays more like a winger who is new to the left back position (he developed as a winger). He likes to get forward and sometimes leaves too much space behind him. In this game, his crosses were uneven, but he got better in the second half. He technically had assists on the final two goals even if Wright and Aaronson did most of the work.

Freeman is a bit different and what is interesting about him is how good and how effective he is when getting involved in the physical side of the game. He wins duels, he can tackle well, and he can physically handle tough tackles against him. He’s new to first team minutes at the club level and his inexperience will show, but you can see the upside.

Sebastian Berhalter once again showed that he is technical with the ball and can pass and dribble. The concern for him, however, is that he needs to be better winning duels and winning balls back. He needs more of a defensive edge to his game, especially with Tyler Adams out. The problem with this roster is that the team loses way too much when Adams isn’t on the field. Defensively they become unglued. Berhalter has the skill on the ball to contend for a World Cup spot, but the key will be what he can do when his team doesn’t have possession.

The same can be said of Luca de la Tore, who has more experience than Berhalter and knows the international side of the game well. De la Torre is still the same player, but he doesn’t fix things when Adams is out.

Against a better team, this midfield isn’t good enough defensively. Cardoso (who was sick this weekend) is good but isn’t the answer to a missing Adams. When Cardoso tries to play in place of Adams, things go wrong – such as the 4-0 loss to Switzerland or last year’s 5-1 loss to Colombia.

Agyemang with a goal he didn’t even realize. At least Luna gets the assist pic.twitter.com/ge0lKTa5im

Everything else was fine for the U.S. team. Jack McGlynn’s left foot continues to be a big weapon. Agyemang’s first touch lets him down and that might keep him off the World Cup team, but he forces turnovers and moves well in the open field. His best moment wasn’t his “accidental” goal but rather his defensive play on the first goal where he stripped the defender and quickly got it wide to McGlynn for the cross.

Haji Wright and Brenden Aaronson both came off the bench to put the exclamation on the win. Both will probably get the chance to start soon.

On Thursday, the United States will face Saudi Arabia with a chance to essentially lock up Group D. Pochettino will want to rotate his squad while also continue to look for the best combinations. Saudi Arabia defeated Haiti 1-0 in its opening game and the game should be a tougher test than Trinidad & Tobago.

One of the most interesting things to watch in this game is the midfield combinations. Without Tyler Adams, it creates a huge void defensively and Pochettino doesn’t have any Plan B. Johnny Cardoso has tried to play that role and it hasn’t worked. Luca de la Torre, Sebastian Berhalter, Jack McGlynn, or either Aaronson brother are not No. 6 players in a similar manner to Adams.

A STRONG START. ???? pic.twitter.com/qmm4xANa5L

Adams was not able to go against Trinidad & Tobago and he was not missed. Against better opponents, he will be severely missed. Saudi Arabia isn’t great, but they take advantage of a U.S. midfield that isn’t great defensively.

Whether Adams can or can’t go, there are questions about who will pair with Adams and how it will connect with the attack.

But we could see Damion Downs or Brian White come in for Patrick Agyemang. We could also see different wingers and fullbacks.

Another aspect to watch is set pieces. Berhalter and McGlynn give the U.S. team two very good options for delivery – one with either foot. But will he rotate out both players? If so, who replaces them on set pieces?
