THE WEEKEND FOR Americans abroad was an improvement from recent weeks. While still not perfect, what we saw was a lot of fight from several players in relegation zones – the Leeds trio, Ricardo Pepi, Yunus Musah who all contributed to big wins.

Most of the lackluster news was in England.

There was still a lot of uneventful stuff as Christian Pulisic remains injured – which might be a blessing in disguise given that Chelsea lost to Tottenham 2-0 and the Graham Potter hire has been a complete mess. Chelsea is now in 10th place. Also in the Premiership, Matt Turner still hasn’t played in the Premier League and he watched Arsenal’s 1-0 win over Leicester City on Saturday. Chris Richards was an unused substitute for Crystal Palace who had a nice defensive showing in a 0-0 draw with Liverpool. Richards has played well when given the chance, but so have the typical starters.

But Josh Sargent remained out injured with an ankle injury but Norwich has two wins and a draw with Sargent out following Saturday’s 2-0 win over Cardiff City. Also, Auston Trusty missed his first game for Birmingham City, a 1-0 loss to Ethan Horvath and it was City’s fourth loss in a row. On the other hand, Horvath and Luton Town look promising for the promotional playoffs. In the Championship, Burnley defeated relegation battling Huddersfield 4-0. Duane Holmes is still out injured for Huddersfield. Jaheim Headly started for Huddersfield but we have been told his international heart lies with either England or, more realistically, Jamaica, over the United States. Lynden Gooch also was out for Sunderland in a 2-1 loss to Coventry.

But over in Germany there were some important but disappointing takeaways.

Borussia Dortmund defeated Hoffenheim 1-0 away on Saturday. American manager Pellegrino Matarazzo is still winless in three games since taking over and the team has been unable to put things together since well before he arrived. Typically, the team struggles defensively but then when it is strong defensively, like against BVB, it can’t do anything offensively. Now with Hertha winning, Hoffenheim is in the relegation playoff position and is only out of automatic relegation on goal differential. Its next three games are at Mainz, at Freiburg, and home against Hertha.

From a player perspective, the game was also disappointing for Americans. After starting the first games under Matarazzo, John Brooks was benched for poor play. It’s hard to argue this wasn’t coming.

But there is also Gio Reyna. The U.S. international started off January playing well off the bench for Dortmund. He then made one start on February 11 but has gone as an unused substitute since then. It’s tough to argue that this is wrong given that Dormtund has been unstoppable in the Bundesliga and in the Champions League. They are second in Bundesliga but even with leaders Bayern on points.

Reyna, 20, has played well when on the field but Dortmund isn’t pushing him because he is not key to their success. The best way to describe him at this point is that he is a “luxury player.”

It remains to be seen when that will change but my guess is that it will at some point. It’s tough with the team in strong contention in the Bundesliga and in the Champions League. The team is going for the win. But at the heart of BVB’s model is to acquire young players, play them, and sell them. Reyna has shown quality but if they ever want to sell him, they have to play him. Reyna has been dealing with injuries for most of the past 18 months so he is going to have to show some reliability. But he might not get that chance until next season with the way BVB have been playing.

Also in Germany, Joe Scally only saw the final six minutes for Borussia Monchengladbach in a 4-0 loss to Mainz. Aside from Bayern Munich winning the league every year, a large portion of the Bundesliga is as unpredictable as MLS. Last week, M’Gladbach defeated Bayern Munich. This week, it gets blown out by Mainz. Scally was not likely to start for Gladbach against Mainz given he didn’t get off the bench in the win over Bayern. Managers typically keep the same starting XI after a big win. But now after a big loss, the door might be open to him.

In Italy, Sergino Dest was not in the squad for AC Milan in a 2-0 win over Atalanta. It’s been reported but AC Milan appears to have no interest in keeping him after his loan expires in June. He’s 22 years old and has played in the Champions League for three teams: Ajax, Barcelona, and AC Milan. He will have interest.

Now let’s get onto the big stories of those who played.

Daryl Dike, 22, has been up and down since returning completely from his long-term injury. On Saturday, Dike scored two goals in a huge 2-0 win over promotion contending Middlesbrough. Both goals were scored on fellow American Zack Steffen, Boro’s goalkeeper who has been having a strong season after a tough start.

Dike now has five goals in 698 minutes for West Brom this season. That’s a very good ratio. These were also his first goals since January 23 – a span of exactly a month. During that past month, it was mostly struggles. In this game, however, he showed what he can be – with goals in the 8th and 10th minutes.

The first goal was typical Dike – a well-time run into the box and a one-time finish off a low cross.

The second goal was impressive, not just in the goal, but the backheel pass in the buildup. For me, Dike will get to the next level by showing himself to be part of the build-up, holding the ball up, creating, and passing. We know he can finish. Unfortunately, Steffen clearly should have done better on this goal as he coughed up a rebound on Dike’s first shot which was then sent home. Steffen hasn’t made any real mistakes since the fall, but this was one he would like to have had back.

As for Dike, he was great. Now it is also for him to show value in his play aside from scoring. He needs to get on the ball more and complete more passes in addition to scoring. But he was also in named by a Championship podcast as the league's player of the week.

???? ???????????????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????????? ???????? ???????????? ????????????????????????????!After scoring twice in West Bromwich Albion's 2-0 win over Middlesbrough on Saturday, Daryl Dike is our Championship Player of the Weekend! Well done, Daryl! ????#CCP | #WBA pic.twitter.com/yUf0tSYcs8

Either way, with Josh Sargent and Haji Wright injured, Daryl Dike should be in position for a call-up to the national team in March.

It’s been a tough month for Leeds United. Jesse Marsch was fired on February 6 and the team hasn’t looked any better. Last weekend the team sunk into the relegation zone after a 1-0 loss to fellow battlers Everton.

Saturday’s game against Southampton was critical and the team found a way to win 1-0. Brenden Aaronson, Tyler Adams, and Weston McKennie all started in the important victory. With Everton dropping a 2-0 decision at home to Aston Villa, Leeds pulled out of the relegation zone by a single point and leapfrogged Everton. These next two months are going to be close.

The good news for Leeds United is that McKennie looked the most comfortable has been in the Premier League by a long way. He was breaking up plays and getting the ball forward quickly into the attack. This is what Leeds wanted from him from day one. Tyler Adams has arguably been the team’s best player all season but in this game he was able to show chemistry with McKennie.

If McKennie can continue to improve, Leeds has a much better chance of staying up. Aaronson is still a little bit of a work in progress but a win is a win. That will continue to get him opportunities. Next weekend, Leeds heads to London to visit a struggling Chelsea team.

Ricardo Pepi, 20, is going to have a big role whether or not Groningen stays up or is relegated. On Saturday, Pepi scored his ninth goal of the season. His 50th minute goal gave Groningen a 2-0 lead on Excelsior and the game ended 3-0. While Groningen remained in 17th place, they are within striking distance of safety.

Regardless, Pepi is in a good position for development. Unlike some other forwards in relegation battles, Pepi is still getting enough service to be effective. He’s finding ways to score despite his team typically being on the short end of a talent game.

Ricardo Pepi’s goal. Great individual effort in a relegation battle pic.twitter.com/taSnv4GKJf

Pepi now has nine goals in 1535 minutes across 18 appearances this year. That’s a good ratio. It will be interesting to see what the next step is for him after this season. Does Augsburg bring him back? Do they sell him? Do they loan him out again? Regardless, Pepi is creating demand for himself this year.

As for the national team, with Haji Wright and Josh Sargent injured, Pepi and Dike have a good chance to be called in March.

Valencia is still in the relegation zone after this weekend, but Saturday’s 1-0 win over Real Valladolid helps. Valencia is now just a point from safety – trailing Valladolid.

Yunus Musah, 20, played 78 minutes in the win and while he was mostly quiet, these types of wins are helpful for him in his development. Yes, he needs to get goals and assists (he has 0 goals, 2 assists on the season) but this season should help him to play with desperation.

The good news for Valencia in its relegation battle is that it still has a talent edge. Despite sitting in 18th place in the 20-team league, it actually has an even zero goal differential. Typically in relegation battles, teams have a negative goal differential by a significant margin.

Valencia has had a combination of bad luck, bad decision making at important moments, and losing close games. It will be hard for an even goal differential to finish an entire season in the relegation one. But the team has to be smarter. Even a modest improvement should go a long way.

Some of most consistently good news for Americans this season in Europe has been in Belgium with Mark McKenzie, Bryan Reynolds, Sam Vines before his November injury, and now even Marlon Fossey is getting in on it.

This weekend was a very good one for the Yanks there.

McKenzie celebrated his 24th birthday in style, going the distance for Genk in a 3-0 win over relegation fodder Oostende. McKenzie played well although he was not tested too much defensively with Genk in control most of the game. McKenzie was credited with an eye-opening 16 ball recoveries in this game. Unless something odd happens, he will be a champion at the end of this season.

What a 24th birthday, 3 points, clean sheet and play-off 1 secured! ?? pic.twitter.com/o8o4iWqqIE

Bryan Reynolds, 21, and Westerlo had their best win of the season this weekend with a 4-2 triumph over second place Union SG on Sunday. Reynolds went a full 90 in the win and was praised by the media for his strength on both sides of the ball. While he is only on the club on loan, like Pepi he has put himself into a position to have strong options next season.

Marlon Fossey, 24, continues to fit in well at Standard Liege in the club’s wingback formation. In Sunday’s 2-2 draw with Anderlecht, Fossey made one error to concede a penalty in the 34th minute but otherwise was strong again. After years of suffering numerous injuries, Fossey has used this season to set a new tone for his career.

Overall, Belgium has just been a fun place for Americans this year. That should be even more when Sam Vines returns for third-place Antwerp.

In Croatia’s HNJ, the biggest teams in the country faced off when Dinamo Zagreb hosted Hajduk Split on Sunday. U.S. U-20 midfielder Rokas Pukstas, 18 and young American winger Agustin Anello, 20, started for Hajduk in a rare occasion when multiple American players have started in such a huge Eastern European game.

Unfortunately for Pukstas and Anello, this game was no contest as Dinamo pummeled Hajduk 4-0 – with three first half goals putting this game out of reach early. Both Americans survived the first half changes with Hajduk making three subs at the break. Anello played 68 minutes and Pukstas played the full 90.

Most interesting match of the day for Americans abroad: leaders Dinomo Zagreb vs Hajduk Split. The big 2 teams of Croatia’s HNL- 2 Americans starting for 2nd place Hajduk Split- U.S U-20 midfielder Rokas Pukstas (age 18)- Miami native Augustin Anello, 20, starts at left wing pic.twitter.com/EgR9tKU5a6

From this win, the gap between Dinamo Zagreb and Hajduk Split is big. Dinamo has an 11 point lead but the talent gap is big. After that, there is a big talent gap between Hajduk Spit and everyone else in the HNL.

Regardless, it is a great opportunity for young players like Pukstas and Anello to learn and develop – and probably get sold sooner than later. Anello is at Hajduk on loan from Lommel in Belgium’s second tier but the fact that he has started his first two game since arriving likely suggests the club will exercise its option to buy.

Cameron Carter-Vickers and Celtic lifted their first silverware this season with a 2-1 win over Rangers in the final of the League Cup. Both of Celtic’s goals were scored by Kyogo Furuhashi and Cameron Carter-Vickers went the distance in the win while Malik Tillman went 66 minutes in the loss.

For Celtic, it looks like it could be a clean sweep of titles. They’re in the quarterfinals of the Scottish FA Cup and they are nine points up in the Scottish Premiership.

On Friday, Fulham played to a 1-1 draw with Wolves at Craven Cottage. Tim Ream and Antonee Robinson are likely the two best Americans in Europe this season for a surging Fulham team that is in surprising contention for a European birth. Although they remain in sixth place with the draw, it was likely seen as two lost points in their dream season.

Robinson assisted on Manon Solomon’s second half equalizer and he is certainly an American who could fetch a big sum this summer (although unlikely to be a massive step up from Fulham if he leaves). Tim Ream was not at fault for Wolves goal although he was late arriving in his emergency defense after Pablo Sarabia got open for a close-range shot.

Sometimes there is a big distance between making the bench and playing regularly, but it is worth monitoring several young American players who are eligible for the U.S. U-20 team.

Caden Clark has made the bench for RB Leipzig two games in row although he is still waiting for his Bundesliga debut. He went unused in Leipzig’s 2-1 win over Eintracht Frankfurt on Saturday. In that game for Eintracht, Paxten Aaronson made the bench for the first time and was also unused. It’s an encouraging sign although it doesn’t necessarily mean regular minutes are close – although a debut at some point is probably likely in the weeks/months ahead. But will they be released for the U-20 World Cup? Doing so would likely mean they would have to miss the last two games of the Bundesliga season. If they’re not regulars, they probably will be released.

Whenever healthy, Kevin Paredes seems to be a regular off the bench for Wolfsburg and he played the final 11 mintues on Saturday in the club’s 2-0 away win over Cologne. He’s developing nicely and is now getting consistent minutes. My guess is that he could be with the full national team this summer if he is not released for the U-20 World Cup.

It was anticipated as a huge game in the Bundesliga as leaders Bayern Munich hosted a Union Berlin team aiming to remain in contention. In the end, it was no contest as Bayern Munich rolled to a 3-0 win. Jordan Pefok returned to the starting lineup for Union Berlin but was mostly invisible in his 66 minutes before getting subbed out.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Kaiserslautern defeated Greuther Furth 3-1 to end a two game skid and remain in fifth place in the league (five points out of the playoff position). Terrence Boyd played 88 minutes and opened the scoring in the 22nd minute. It was his 11th goal of the season which ties him for third in the league. For 11th place Greuther Furth, Julian Green played the second half but did not make an impact and former U.S. U-17 midfielder Max Dietz was an unused substitute.

St. Pauli defeated Hansa Rostock 1-0 at home on Sunday with two American storylines in the game. Ryan Malone, 31, started and played just the first half in central defense for Hansa Rostock. The big story was Fabian Hurzeler. The American born head coach was hired as the team’s head coach in the winter break with it just one point away from the relegation zone. Since his hiring (short of his 30th birthday), the club has now won a perfect 15 points from five games to move into seventh place. He celebrated his 30th birthday on Sunday with the win.

This is nuts. A perfect 15 points in 5 games for St. Pauli since American-born Fabian Hurzeler took over as head coach - his first pro head coaching job. They were on the cusp of the 2.Bundesliga relegation zone when he took over, now they’re in 7th- today is his 30th birthday https://t.co/8y23yP9PqT

Heidenheim defeated Arminia Bielefeld 1-0 to remain in third place (the promotion playoff position) and close the gap with second place Hamburg to just two points. 2018 U.S. U-20 defender turned defensive midfielder Lennard Maloney went the distance in the win for Heidenheim while George Bello’s tough season with Arminia continued as he was an unused sub. Arminia is now in the relegation playoff position. Maloney might not be particularly fast, but he’s finding a way to be very useful in Heidenheim’s promotional race.

Tim Weah went 90 minutes for Lille again filling in at left back in a 2-1 win over Brest. He started the game at left back before moving to the right side in the second half. Lille remained in sixth place with the win, two points behind Rennes for the last Ligue 1 spot in Europe.His touch map:

At the bottom of the table Troyes was defeated by Ajaccio at home by a 2-1 score. American central defender Erik Palmer-Brown played the final nine minutes and Troyes remained second from the bottom of the table. While the team is skidding with five losses in a row and just one point from nine games, they are only two points from safety. So just a few positive results could turn things around.

Will Palmer-Brown get back in with the national team? There is competition: Zimmerman, McKenzie, Richards, Carter-Vickers, and Robinson are all in the mix even if you consider Ream and Long out.

Celta Vigo cruised to a comfortable 3-0 win over Real Valladolid to climb to 13th place. Luca de la Torre was steady in possession and helped to create a pair of chances. He also forced a good save in the 64th minute. He played mostly on the left side and before getting taken out in the 73rd minute.

Utrecht posted a 3-0 away win on Sparta Rotterdam on Sunday to climb into seventh place. Taylor Booth, 21, played 70 minutes in the win and he did well but he left with the score 0-0. Utrecht scored all three goals after he left, including one by his replacement.

AZ Alkmaar defeated Cambuur 2-1 to remain in third place. Djordje Mihailovic was an unused sub.

Similarly, Richard Ledezma was an unused substitute for fourth-place PSV in a 3-1 win over Twente

Leaders Benfica defeated 13th place Vizela 2-0 away and American midfielder Alex Mendez played the final 21 minutes in the loss while U.S. U-20 midfielder Alejandro Alvarado was not in the matchday squad.

Reggie Cannon played 90 minutes for eighth place Boavista in a 3-1 away win over Pacos Ferreira.

Benji Michel was not in the squad for sixth place Arouca in a 2-0 win vs. seventh place Casa Pia.

In the Scottish Premiership, Scott Pittman went 90 minutes for Livingston in a 1-0 away loss to Aberdeen with Dante Polvara not making the bench for Aberdeen.

In Serie B, Venezia played Cagliari to a 0-0 draw on Saturday to remain in the relegation playoff position. Tanner Tessmann was suspended and that was a big loss for Venezia as he has been among their top players in recent months. Gianluca Busio went 90 minutes in the draw while Andrija Novakovich played the final 13 minutes.

In the Greek Super League, Caleb Stanko was an unused sub for last place Lamia in a 0-0 away draw to Volos NFC.

In Austria, Sebastian Soto did not get of the bench for Austria Klagenfurt in an impressive 2-1 away win over second place Sturm Graz.

In the Danish Superliga, Emmanuel Sabbi played 90 minutes for OB in a 4-2 loss to FC Nordsjaelland. OB sit eighth place in the 12-team league. Christian Cappis was a unused sub for Brondby in a 5-2 win over Horsens on Monday. Brondby has extended its winning streak to five games and sits fifth.

In Serbia’s Super Liga, Romain Gall played 63 minutes for Mladost Novi Sad in a 1-0 loss to Nov PAzar. Mladost sits 15th in the 16-team league.
