GOOD MORNING and happy Thursday to all ASN readers, the news never stops in the world of American soccer – so let’s get you ready for the weekend with everything that is going on the domestic, European, and U.S. Soccer.

Let’s start south of the border

The first leg of the Liga MX quarterfinals took place this week and a number of Yanks were in action.

Chivas defeated Toluca 1-0 in the first leg of their series. Cade Cowell came off the bench in the 80th minute and delivered a cross that eventually led to the game’s only goal in the 85th.

Es que si se mamó Victor Guzmán con ese pinche Golazo Alv ???? @Chivas pic.twitter.com/tAdkHENzUH

Whether or not the 1-0 advantage is enough to stand up on the trip to Toluca remains to be seen. But it was a productive shift from the U.S. U-23 hopeful – it’s at an important time as he looks to build his case to make the U.S. Olympic team.

Meanwhile, Club America posted a positive 1-1 result on the road against Pachuca (who eliminated them from the CONCACAF Champions Cup). Alejandro Zendejas went the full 90 for America but was quiet and didn’t standout either way.

On Thursday, Brandon Vazquez and Monterrey will take on Tigres.

The U.S. Open Cup Round of 32 took place over the past two days and this round marked the entry for the eight MLS teams that will compete in the tournament under the controversial plan that was agreed after MLS attempted to withdraw from the tournament and U.S. Soccer blocked the attempt.

Of the eight MLS teams that took part in the two days, six advanced while two were upset by USL Championship teams. Also, NYCFC II became the only MLS Next Pro team to advance into the quarterfinals with a 1-0 win over Colorado Springs.

In other notes, all remaining USL League One teams were eliminated in the Round of 32. This leaves nine USL Championship teams, six MLS teams, and one MLS Next Pro team remaining.

This will now set up a Round of 16 that will feature every surviving MLS team to face a USL Championship team. One matchup between two USL Championship teams, while NYCFC II will take on New Mexico United.

Here are a few thoughts.

First, it is partly hilarious that NYCFC II earned the $25,000 prize as the furthest advancing Division III team. Typically, this prize has gone to local clubs like FC Motown of the NPSL in 2022. Now it goes to a team owned by the City Football Group. Having a reserve team be eligible for this prize is something that should be reconsidered.

Jimenez does a merry dance ???? @newyorkcityfcii #USOC2024 // @OpenCup pic.twitter.com/Y4B1DhGQB6

On the other hand, NYCFC II started six players between the ages of 16-18, and you don’t want to take anything away from them either.

Second, it was good to see the eight MLS teams play a number of key first-team players. Most didn’t use top starting XI’s, but it was a healthy mix of starters and bench players. LAFC used almost entirely kids last year, but this year in the win over Las Vegas, Denis Bouanga, Timothy Tillman, and Eduard Atuesta started. In Omaha, it was Alan Pulido who was the difference maker at the death.

SKC's DP sinks @Union_Omaha (eventually) ????#USOC2024 // @OpenCup // @SportingKC pic.twitter.com/WIfh6paHOu

Third, it was a very exciting round of games. 11 of the 16 games were decided by one goal or penalties. Eight games saw winning goals or equalizers scored after the 75th minute.

Tampa Bay’s winning goal from Manuel Arteaga took the cake.

???? @ManuelArteaga7 ????#USOC2024 | #COYR pic.twitter.com/poxARh1Otp

Two prominent U.S. youth singings were announced this week.

It has been reported for months, but Cavan Sullivan, 14, signed with the Philadelphia Union. The deal was finally announced, although the official announcement left the part out that he will go to the Philadelphia Union afterward.

It’s nice to see the Union taking a victory lap about their homegrown success – which continues through this day as they continue to have a big presence on U.S. youth national teams.

Cavan Sullivan joins YSC’s Wall of Honor!#DOOP | #BabySnakes | @yscacademy pic.twitter.com/nmhIlmENg3

But for all the details on the deal, check out Jonathan Tannenwald’s story.

Exclusive:Cavan Sullivan and his family reveal to @PhillyInquirer why he chose to turn pro with the Union, how Manchester City won the race to be his future home, and how close they came to spurning the hometown club they're such a big part of.https://t.co/1R012xHo40 pic.twitter.com/w2xeqAvmj0

Then in England, recent U.S. U-17 World Cup forward Keyrol Figueroa signed his first professional contract with Liverpool FC. It always raises the question when a young players signs with a big club, what is the plan to get him minutes? That applies here.

Keyrol Figueroa finally signs a pro contract with Liverpool. This has been coming for awhile now. From the U.S perspective, I'd expect him with the U.S. U-20 team this summer for World Cup qualifying. https://t.co/6oivSq002o

1
