HAPPY WEDNESDAY afternoon, it is a really busy day in American soccer. There is a full slate of MLS games, the USMNT camp is opening, and players are speaking with the media, the final pre-Olympic camp roster was announced, and the U-20 roster is out tomorrow.

We’ve already covered the U.S. Olympic roster in a separate piece, so let’s start in Europe.

Petaluma, CA native Joe Enochs will be managing in the 2.Bundesliga next season after leading Jahn Regensburg to promotion via a playoff win over Wehen Wiesbaden. The playoff victory was impressive after only playing to a 2-2 draw at home in the first leg. Jahn Regensburg ended up winning 2-1 on Tuesday in the final.

Congratulations to American head coach Joe Enochs who has led Jahn Regensburg to successful promotion into the 2.Bundesliga after today's promotional playoff win over Wehen Wiesbaden- A Petaluma, CA native, Enochs attended Sacramento State. As a player he had 1 #USMNT cap pic.twitter.com/Qm7ygh6gDC

This is the third time Enochs will manager in the 2.Bundesliga but the first time was as an interim head coach (before he had licensing) and the second was last year after Regensburg already clinched relegation. In his first full season with Jahn Regensburg, he led them to a third place finish in the 3.Liga and a spot in the playoffs.

It was an intense season for Regensburg and it also contained tragedy after attacker Agyemang Diawusie died of cardiac arrest in November. But Enochs managed to get the team through it.

It’s been a very successful period for American-born managers in Germany as Pellegrino Matarazzo led Hoffenheim into a Conference League spot after taking the job in January 2023 when the club was in a relegation battle. Fabian Hurzeler led St. Pauli to promotion after taking the job in January 2023 at the age of 29 while in a relegation battle. Now, you have Joe Enochs completing the sweep of American managers who either led clubs to promotion or a spot in Europe.

American-born coaches in Germany- Pellegrino Matarazzo: Qualified Hoffenheim for Europe- Fabian Hurzeler: Led St. Pauli to Bundesliga promotion- Joe Enochs: led Jahn Regensburg to 2.Bundesliga promotion- Matarazzo & Hurzeler (at 29) hired 22/23 midseason in relegation battles

In news that mixes Americans both domestically and abroad, Tim Weah had joined the ownership group of Brooklyn FC. The USL Championship team that will begin play in the second-tier league in 2025.

Welcome, Tim! ????@USMNT star Timothy Weah has become the newest member of the @_BrooklynFC and @_BrooklynFCw ownership group.?? https://t.co/TI2ecbA4s0 pic.twitter.com/KKqWEUCdpk

Weah is the son of Liberian great George Weah, but he grew up in Brooklyn near his cousin and current New York Red Bull right back Kyle Duncan. But it is great to see players take ownership and strengthen their ties to the domestic side of the game, even when they’re based abroad.

A few things I am paying attention to during the busy Wednesday night slate of games in MLS.

First, Inter Miami is in a great spot after winning a game in Vancouver without their stars. Now they host a reeling Atlanta United team. Thiago Almada and Lionel Messi will face off against each other after being teammates on Argentina's 2022 World Cup winning team.

But if Atlanta lose this game, is it over for Gonzalo Pineda? The coach is in a tough, tough spot.

FC Cincinnati is also in a great spot and, along with Inter Miami, are among the two best teams in the league right now. Cincinnati is just built so well. Kevin Kelsy has been a revelation. Tonight they host Nashville SC, who are without a permanent coach. But likely Olympian Walker Zimmerman gets to meet up with USMNT defender Miles Robinson, who might also be his teammate on the Olympic team.

The best game of the night will be when Seattle hosts Real Salt Lake. Seattle is coming off an impressive road win over St. Louis and now they host an Western-leading RSL. Diego Luna will suit up for RSL after being left off the most recent Olympic roster.
