THE UNITED STATES MEN’S national team finished group play at the 2025 Gold Cup with a perfect nine points following a 2-1 win over Haiti on Sunday night in Arlington, Texas. That now sets up a quarterfinal against Costa Rica on Sunday, June 29 in Minnesota. The overall performance in the win over Haiti was mixed, but enough to keep the momentum positive.

The U.S. team began the game on the front foot in the 11th minute with a very well taken goal as Brenden Aaronson sent in a cross that found Malik Tillman at the back post for a terrific header. The lead lasted just eight minutes as Haiti equalized off a blooper from U.S. goalkeeper Matt Freese who shanked a pass that fell to Louicius Don Deedson for a close-range finish.

The winning goal came in the 75th minute when John Tolkin made a nice pass out of the back that sent Patrick Agyemang alone on goalkeeper Johny Placide. The Charlotte FC striker took a touch around Placide and sent in an easy left-footed shot.

"I think overall it was a good performance. Maybe we were not as clinical with the chances that we had. I think we should score more," Mauricio Pochettino said.

Here are the takeaways

In terms of the “big picture” implications from the group stage performances, it is now that Malik Tillman now looks as if he is ready to take a big role within the team. For years, his national team performances have not lived up to how he played for his clubs – Rangers or PSV. He is now seeing that translate over.

"Malik, it's difficult to define him because what a player, no?" Mauricio Pochettino said. "What a player that is showing this, all his talent and capacity. Because this type of player, the talent that he has shown with every single game and then with the capacity without ball, the work ethic in the way that he really is aggressive, he recovered a lot of balls. He's always trying to help the deep press, chasing back, playing in different positions.

3rd @GoldCup match.3rd goal for Malik Tillman! pic.twitter.com/4AG2nHzEAp

"He can appear like a No. 10 in training, between the lines, using the half space, but can be in the right or left side, wide. Or he can drop and play like a No. 8, No. 6. I think, 'What a talented player.' So pleased with him."

When Pochettino gives a high level of praise, he means it. This means that Tillman is a player he is taking with him moving forward as the team builds towards the World Cup. Expect to see a lot of him in the fall for the big friendlies ahead.

Malik Tillman wins Man of the Match honors after his performance vs Haiti ????@JennyTaft is pitchside with the @USMNT midfielder pic.twitter.com/0uR6aUABNb

That also has a rippling effect. For players competing in that attacking midfield role (such as Gio Reyna), minutes or even roster spots will be harder to come by.

For long stretches, this game was frantic and the U.S. team did not have great control of the pace. Part of this was Tyler Adams (who is the most consequential USMNT player) having a subpar performance defensively. But the U.S. allowed too much space at times and was not aggressive winning the ball back – especially when Haiti had the ball in dangerous positions.

Against better teams, the U.S. team might have been punished. This is a game where the U.S. team needs to hold a better defensive shape, and keep possession easier.

Agyemang is a tough player to read. He can be clumsy with the ball but physically he is tough to defend and he requires attention from opposing centerbacks. He is currently getting minutes ahead of Brian White. It is interesting to think about why. White scores more than Agyemang in MLS and White has been consistently good throughout his career.

What Agyemang has that Pochettino wants is that he runs very well in the open field. Pochettino likely wants more mobility from the position along with size and strength that is going to draw defenders.

But of course, Agyemang needs to score, and he failed to do this month - not counting an accidental deflection in the opener. He needed this goal and Pochettino needed it from him.

As cool as you like from Big Pat to take the lead ????‍???? pic.twitter.com/F3rShPIGlt

He is likely competing for a backup spot on the USMNT roster when everyone is healthy. But it is within reach. Yes, Ricardo Pepi is number one and Folarin Balogun is probably high up the chart despite not having played under Pochettino. But the exact depth chart isn’t clear – as made clear by the fact Josh Sargent was left off.

Big games ahead for Agyemang as he is on the bubble.

Matt Freese made a terrible mistake that gave Haiti their only goal. Obviously, everyone makes mistakes but for a player like Freese who is still trying to make his case to be part of Pochettino’s plans. Thus far in the Gold Cup, Freese has been fine but mostly untested. Until he proves himself, mistakes are costly.

As everyone knows, Antonio Jiménez is the goalkeeping coach who is always with Pochettino at every stint. Pochettino trusts Jiménez and Jiménez has been working with Freese. It’s a likely bet that Freese has been training well and that has given him an opening.

Matt Freese records his first save of the match! ???????????? pic.twitter.com/lyHKsMPapr

This mistake likely hurt Freese’s stock, but it might not bench him. Pochettino will allow a mistake. But the pressure might now be on Freese to clean up his game and be better. Many coaches will allow a mistake and see how the player responds.

John Tolkin assisted Agyemang’s winner with a nice pass up the left side. He had a poor first half but a good second half. Overall, his positives outweigh the negatives. Has he overtaken Max Arfsten at left back? Possibly. A lot will also come down to training.

Arfsten is a good player, but Tolkin has the benefit of being a left-back by trade. Arfsten still plays the position like a converted winger at times and that is when he gets into trouble with understanding the space behind him.

Alex Freeman is in a better position with this team than people might realize. He has unique athleticism and can thrive in a physical game. This was another good performance in winning duels and in breaking up Haiti’s chances. Joe Scally should be a little concerned that his spot on the USMNT might not be automatic.

Alex Freeman is just the second #USMNT player 20 years or younger to start all three @GoldCup group stage matches. ???????? pic.twitter.com/TKqSWganfz

Quinn Sullivan had a good game playing on the right side. He might end up getting a start in the knockout rounds next week. He should have buried his chance in the first half which hit the crossbar. Without Haji Wright, Sullivan will continue to get chances although Jack McGlynn as an inverted right winger probably is still the incumbent on this roster. McGlynn passes well and has a good left foot but Sullivan is more athletic.

There are some interesting position battles in the games ahead at this Gold Cup that will continue to affect the player pool.

Will Tillman shift centrally or stay on the wing? That affects players such as Diego Luna and Jack McGlynn – two players who have done well at the Gold Cup but who didn’t start against Hait. Brenden Aaronson delivered a needed assist and that will keep him from losing ground to Diego Luna – who also shifts between wing and the No. 10.
