GOOD MORNING EVERYONE, we’ve reached the middle of the week and the snow on the East slowed down our output for a little bit but we are back on track. The midweek news has been slower but there is still a little bit of news to catch up on.

We can start in England

Fulham defeated Leeds United in a 2-0 win in the fifth round of the FA Cup. This was a rare game in which five American featured – all of whom were on the 2022 U.S. World Cup team. Weston McKennie and Tyler Adams started for Leeds United and played 90 minutes with Brenden Aaronson coming off the bench in the 74th minute. Meanwhile, Tim Ream and Antonee Robinson went the distance for Fulham.

Unfortunately for American fans, a game where five Americans were on the field at the same time didn’t live up the billing. Of the five, only Ream played well – and he was excellent. Especially the last 20 minutes when he was putting on a masterclass of defending. His best moments came with two balls cleared off the line.

Tim Ream: Raw # for Fulham in 2-0 FA Cup win over Leeds90 mins92 touches1 shot69/78 passing7/12 long balls15 passes into the final third2 balls cleared off the line8 clearances2 blocked shots

As for the rest, Robinson defended well but struggled offensively with the ball. McKennie had too many turnovers, Adams was also strong defensively with six interceptions but offered little with the ball. Aaronson wasn’t in the game long enough.

As for Ream, he’s the best American in the game now. If he was 10 years younger, he’d be a wanted man by the biggest clubs in the world.

Fulham are now through to the quarterfinals of the FA Cup. Leeds United, perhaps correctly, can simply focus on their relegation battle in the coming months.

Timothy Michael Ream. ????#FULLEE

There were a few other Americans in action on Tuesday.

Luton Town played Millwall to a 2-2 draw that was frustrating for both teams hunting for a promotional playoff spot. Millwall squandered a 2-0 lead in this game. But Luton Town’s American goalkeeper Ethan Horvath conceded and absolute howler in Millwall’s opening goal. While he has had a good and consistent season up to this point, he would want this one back.

In Hungary, American forward Eduvie Ikoba has struggled a bit for his club, ZTE, since play resumed in January and he hasn’t scored in the country’s top league, the NB I, since November 8th – a span of seven games. He’s still the third leading scorer in the league with 10 goals.

But Ikoba, 25, has scored twice in the Hungarian Cup in 2023, including yesterday in a 4-1 away win over Mez?kövesd-Zsóry. This win puts ZTE into the semifinals of the Hungarian Cup.

ZTE FC’s American striker Eduvie Ikoba just scored a pretty nice goal on the Hungarian Cup quarterfinal. His team won 4-1, he scored the 3rd and helped set up the 4th. #USMNT pic.twitter.com/TvTOmhuVLH

In the quarterfinals of the Dutch Cup, Utrecht lost to SV Spakenburg 4-1 and Taylor Booth was too injured to play. The story of Spakenburg is great as they are still an amateur team and will play in the semifinal.

Five American players were represented on the MLS team of the Matchday. Which was good to see.

Thiago Almada, 21, was amazing and the Argentine World Cup winner was the deserved player of the Matchday.

Ballers from day one and it showed on day one ????????: https://t.co/mGPAXdyLoT pic.twitter.com/PVYh9OlU3n

A few more notes on the weekend’s games.

Jordan Morris came off a tough season in 2022 but if Morris can play at the level he showed Sunday night, Seattle can have a good season. He looked like the level he was at before his ACL tear in 2021 or at the level he was at in the CCL. But again, it was Colorado.

I was extremely impressed with Minnesota United over the weekend in a huge 1-0 away win over a good Dallas team. Minnesota was expected to struggle without Reynoso but, Adrian Heath has Minnesota off to a huge start and had a great case to be the coach of the week.

While Houston lost to Cincinnati, I thought Houston played well and looked like a team that could be improved. They controlled possession and most of the important offensive metrics.

On the other hand, Orlando defeated the New York Red Bulls but didn’t play well. Their new DP winger from Racing, Martín Ojeda, really struggled.

In the Croatian Cup Quarterfinals, Hajduk Split hosts Osijek. Hajduk has started two Americans in their last two HNL games: winger Agustin Anello, 20, and midfielder Rokas Pukstas, 18.

In Italy’s Serie B: Bari hosts Venezia. Tanner Tessmann returns from suspension and should start. Gianluca Busio and Andrija Novakovich will also hope for playing time as Venezia looks to climb out of the relegation zone with a visit to the south of Italy.

Matt Turner will likely be on the bench for Arsenal as it hosts Everton in the Premier League.
