IT WAS A HUGE WEEKEND for Americans abroad and the most striking takeaway is that the positive performances didn’t even involve two of the top national team players as Christian Pulisic didn’t play and Antonee Robinson had a quiet performances. Instead, it was a simply good performances in a variety of leagues.

For a quick summary we saw great performances

We also saw the return of Tyler Adams to the field for the first time this season.

Then we saw the anticipated first team debut of Cole Campbell at Borussia Dortmund. He was not the only teenage American to make a first team debut as Adam Basse, a 16 year old defender at Slask Wroclaw, also made his first appearance in Poland’s Ekstraklassa.We also learned about what the USMNT coaching staff was watching this weekend.

USMNT coaching staff this weekend- Miguel D'Agostino will attend Lyon-Besiktas today (Tessmann) and Montpellier - Toulouse Saturday (McKenzie)- Jesus Perez will attend Inter - Juventus on Sunday (McKennie & Weah)- other #USMNT scouts will be at Cincy & Columbus playoff games

Based on this, Tessmann, McKenzie, McKennie, and Weah all delivered important performances in front of their national team coaches.

That is the basics. Let’s get into the detail.

In the craziest game of the weekend for Americans abroad, Juventus and Inter Milan played to a 4-4 draw in Milan in a game what was unpredictable and entertaining. It also saw significant contributions from USMNT regulars Tim Weah and Weston McKennie, who both started. Weah played 63 minutes and scored in the 26th minute to give Juventus a 2-1 lead. Weston McKennie played 83 minutes and assisted on the first and third Juventus goals.

I gol di Vlahovic e Weah e la rimonta con la doppietta di Yildiz ????Gli highlights di #InterJuve sul nostro canale YouTube ????

McKennie’s first assist was the more noteworthy of the two because of the control he showed from the lob into the box and the smart one-touch pass across the goal. He only had 25 touches in this game and wasn’t part of many duels (which can be a staple of his) but he made his limited time on the ball count).

That build up play ????Dusan Vlahovic volleys it home, with Weston McKennie getting the assist ???? pic.twitter.com/AJWag4Vgfv

Weah, meanwhile, was effective in this game playing right wingback. His darting runs into attacking positions helped to open the game up, both with his goal and in drawing fouls.

For both Americans, this was a great performance to make inroads with both Juventus and with the USMNT, who sent assistant coach Jesus Perez to watch. No doubt, a positive report will be delivered to Mauricio Pochettino. Both players have had up and down years, but this was a staunch reminder of their upside. Now it’s about consistency. But USMNT fans should feel optimistic about this game.

After this game, Juventus sits third in Serie A, one point behind second place Inter Milan and five points behind leaders Napoli.

Due to heavy flooding, Bologna’s match with AC Milan (Christian Pulisic and Yunus Musah) was postponed.

Venezia climbed out of last place of Serie A on goal differential after a 2-2 away draw with 16th-place Monza on Sunday. All of the goals were scored in the first half. Gianluca Busio played 89 minutes for Venezia in the draw and had a decent shift. He nearly put Venezia up in the 81st minute but he missed a right footed shot from close range wide to the left. He also drew four fouls with his activity on the ball. It’s been a tough start to the season for Venezia but Busio hasn’t looked out of his depths in the team’s return to Serie A.

In Serie B, Baria travelled to Spezia and played to a 0-0 draw. It was a good result for Bari on the road against the second-place team in the league. American forward Andrija Novakovich was subbed into the game early in the 20th minute for Bari due to an injury. It was a good shift too from the 28-year-old from Wisconsin who created two of Bari’s best chances and was effective in the press to help his team win the ball. Bari ended the day in seventh place of Serie B and is in the promotional race.

It’s a situation worth monitoring, but Kristoffer Lund’s playing time at Palermo has been declining in recent weeks. The USMNT left back only played the final 18 minutes on Saturday for Palermo in a 2-0 win over Reggiana. He did well in his time on the field to see out the win, but all of the best moments for Palermo came before he entered. Palermo rose to 5th place in Serie B with the win.

It was a very significant moment on Saturday when Tyler Adams subbed into Bournemouth’s game away at Aston Villa. The US MNT World Cup captain has been out since the Copa America when he injured his back. He has been dealing with multiple injuries over the past two years which have significantly limited his playing time. Last season, he managed to play only 180 minutes in the Premier League.

To make the news even better, Bournemouth was trailing 1 –0 when he entered the game. He was on the field when his club scored a late equalizer for a 1–1 draw.

Another positive to take from Villa Park, some minutes for Tyler.Glad to have you back ???? pic.twitter.com/FvHzqQ9q6A

Having a healthy Adams who can play regularly is a huge boost to the overall USMNT player pool. But as we have seen in recent years, returning to the field is one thing, staying healthy for an extended period is a different matter. It should not be surprising if both Bournemouth and the USMNT move forward with an abundance of caution in how they utilize Adams. Don’t be surprised if his minutes are managed for the next several weeks or months.

Antonee Robinson played the whole match for Fulham on Saturday in a 1–1 away draw with Everton. The USMNT left back was busy with 78 touches but he did not get forward as often as he typically does. He defended well, however, and had seven clearances to help Fulham secure a point away from home.

Chris Richards remains out with a hamstring injury while Matt Turner was an unused substitute for Crystal Palace in Sunday’s impressive 1-0 win over Tottenham in a London Derby. The surprising win pulled palace out of the bottom three of the Premier League.

Haji Wright was the MOTM for Coventry City as he capped off a stunning comeback win. The USMNT winger hit winning goal in the second minute of stoppage time as Coventry rallied from a 0-2 deficit at home against Luton Town for a 3-2 win. The decisive goal came off the rebound from an Ellis Simms header bounced to Wright for a close finish.

Apart from the goal, it was a big performance from Wright who had three shots and created several chances - all of which seemed to come with a connection to Simms. In the 53rd minute, the California native set up Simms with a very close range shot that missed the target. Just before halftime, Wright found Simms in the middle of the box with a cross and the shot. Also missed the target.

LET'S HAVE THOSE THREE AGAIN ????‍???? pic.twitter.com/Aa3tkUTcoq

The win pulled Coventry out of the bottom three of the Championship. The good news, is that if the chemistry between Wright and Simms continues to flourish and create this many chances, they will have a big edge to push towards midtable in the weeks and months ahead.

Norwich City and Middlesbrough played to a 3-3 draw on Sunday in an anticipated matchup from an American perspective as each team started a pair of players who have been playing for the USMNT roster the past two camps. Josh Sargent started for Norwich and Aidan Morris started for Boro, and both players were subbed out in the 90th minute. Middlesbrough held a 3-1 lead into the 70th minute but had to settle for a draw.

Sargent didn’t have a shot in the game and completed only nine passes, but he also set up a pair of chances. In the third minute, his pass set up Emiliano Marcondes for a shot from distance that was off target. In the 39th minute he had a pass via a header which set up Ante Crnac for a saved shot. Morris, meanwhile, was busy on the ball with 95 touches and he helped in possession, but he didn’t create anything too dangerous.

Brenden Aaronson played the entire game for Leeds United on Saturday in a disappointing 0-0 away draw with Bristol City. Second place Leeds had 68% possession and a 12-2 edge in shots, but nothing came from it. Aaronson was busy with 62 touches and an aggressive effort in the press, and aside from bringing energy to the game, he was not part of anything particularly dangerous for Leeds. He had three shots, one of which was on target from outside the box in the second half.

Ethan Horvath watched from the bench as Cardiff City played to a productive 0-0 draw away at 5th place West Bromwich Albion. With the draw, Cardiff is out of the bottom three but Horvath is not close to starting absent an injury to Jak Alnwick.

Lynden Gooch remains out with a knee injury, and he did not take part in Stoke City’s 2-0 away loss to Sheffield United on Saturday. Stoke City sits 19th to end the round.

Duane Holmes played the final 27 minutes for Preston North End where his team squandered a 3-0 lead away to Plymouth Argyle, and had to settle for a 3-3 draw. PNE had a 3-1 lead when Holmes entered the game. Despite the result, the American playmaker had a good outing where he set up a couple of chances, one his duels, and gave PNE a chance to win. PNE sits 16th to end the weekend.

It was a significant milestone on Saturday for one of the top US youth national team prospects as Cole Campbell made his debut for Borussia Dortmund. The talented U.S U-20 winger entered the game in the 88th minute with BVB trailing Augsburg 2-1 away. He had only four touches, which included a nice dribble, and his team still lost. Still, it was a big moment for him to make his debut. He is one of the top prospects in the US player pool, and a first team debut with BVB had been coming. This now opens the door for him to have more opportunities and more chances to contribute.

Hopefully, he is released to play in this summers U–20 World Cup because it would be a chance for him to show well amongst his age group.

Joe Scally opened the weekend for Yanks in top division when he started and played all 90 minutes for Borussia Monchengladbach in a 1-1 away draw with Mainz on Friday. Like last week, Scally played left back and did not get heavily involved in M’Gladbach’s attack. Only two of his 29 completed passes were in the attacking third. While he lost all four of his aerials, he won 6/10 of his ground duels and was not beaten defensively on his side of the field.

Scally continues to have a strong start to the season. Last season was difficult for him until early April when he returned to good form. The form he has had to start the season has been a continuation of that.

Lennard Maloney had one of his best performances of the young season when he helped Heidenheim to a 0-0 draw over Hoffenheim, who are coached by Pellegrino Matarazzo. Maloney sat deep, defended well, and made some smart passes that allowed Heidenheim to move forward more effectively and have a edge in shots (17-12). Maloney also made six clearances on the defensive end. He continues to be a very useful player for Heidenheim doing the unglamourous dirty work.

Heidenheim sits 10th after the weekend while Hoffenheim sits 15th, just north of the bottom three.

One week after being subbed out with an injury, Jordan Pefok was able to play the last 25 minutes for Union Berlin in a 1-1 home draw with Eintracht Frankfurt. Union’s equalizer was scored just a minute after Pefok entered the game. It was a quiet outing for Pefok, who had only four touches and two completed passes. Union fell to 4th place with the draw while Eintracht finished the weekend in 6th place. Timmy Chandler was an unused sub for Eintracht.

Recent U.S Olympic team winger Kevin Paredes continues to miss time for Wolfsburg with a foot/ankle injury and he has not played since August. He has been missed as Wolfsburg was held to a 0-0 draw with St. Pauli and now sits in a lackluster 14th place.

On Friday, Santiago Castaneda assisted on the game winner for Paderborn when he hit a lob into the box that found Sven Michel for a close-range finish in the 80th minute. That completed a late 2-1 comeback win away over Koln to temporarily move Paderborn into third place of the 2.Bundesliga.

Castaneda has started every game this season for Paderborn and has progressed nicely while still being a few weeks shy of his 20th birthday. He still has a ways to go. He lost a huge percentage of duels, and if he wants to play higher than the 2.Bundesliga, he will need to be a physical player while playing in central midfield. He also didn’t hit many long-range passes, which are important to swing the point of attack.

But he did a lot right in this game. He hit the winning assist, was 38/41 in passing, had four interceptions (including just before the assist). It will be interesting to watch him grow as the season moves along.

For Koln, they were without American forward Damion Downs, 20, who had a minor illness. But the loss sent them out of the top 10 and their head coach Gerhard Struber (formerly of the New York Red Bulls) could well be on the hot seat now.

After an ugly loss last weekend, Greuther Furth rebounded with a tense 4-3 away win over Schalke on Saturday. Julian Green went 90 minutes and recent US Olympic team defender Max Dietz went 84 minutes in the win which moved them to 10th place in the second tier. Green set up a big chance in the 75th minute when he set up Roberto Massimo for a shot and then his set piece deliver in the 27th minute was an assist when it found Damian Michalski for a header from close range. As for Dietz, it was a quiet outing without much significance.

Johann Gomez played the final 17 minutes for Eintracht Braunschweig in a 1-1 draw with Preussen Munster on Sunday. Both teams remained in the bottom three of the 2.Bundesliga. Gomez had nine touches and created a half chance late in a decent shift off the bench.

John Brooks remains out injured and missed Hertha BSC’s 3-1 win over Karlsruher on Saturday. Hertha end the weekend in fifth.

Joe Enochs and Jahn Regensburg dropped an 8-3 decision to Nurnberg on Friday. The last eight games have been a disaster for Enochs. They have just one point from that run to go along with a -25 goal differential (3 GF, 28 GA). Enochs will be lucky to keep his job come Monday.

One American whose career is on the upswing is Tanner Tessmann. The former FC Dallas central midfielder had a good 90-minute performance for Lyon in an otherwise disappointing 2-2 draw Auxerre at home. Tessmann had 57 touches and took a majority of Lyon’s corner kicks, which is a telling sign of his responsibility and the confidence the club has in him.

Tessmann created two chances, once in the 16th minute and then in the 80th minute. Both times were from crosses that found Argentina’s Nicolas Tagliafico in the box - neither were converted.

After missing the preseason, Tessmann has been expanding his role within Lyon in recent weeks. That is not a small accomplishment for the recent Olympic captain.

46' La seconde période débute ! ????Allez les gars ! ????????????1-0 #OLAJA pic.twitter.com/13pp7HmlAw

With USMNT staff on hand to watch him, Mark McKenzie enjoyed a good shift for Toulouse on Sunday where he completed a perfect 43/43 of his passes in a 3-0 win over Montpellier. He also won 3/4 of his ground duels while making three successful clearances. It wasn’t a performance where he stood out, but he competently did his job for a win that moved Toulouse out of the bottom three of Ligue 1. For the USMNT staff on hand, they should have been impressed with what they saw.

Emmanuel Sabbi played the last 20 minutes for Le Havre in a 1-0 away loss to Rennes on Friday. With the loss, Le Havre remained in the bottom three and have now lost five in a row. Sabbi, 26, only had three touches but managed to create a good chance two minutes into stoppage time when he set up Loic Nego for a shot inside the box, which was saved. Sabbi has the ability to be dangerous with his elite athleticism, but he needs to get on the ball to produce if he wants to help Le Havre climb out of the relegation zone and if he wants to get noticed by USMNT scouts. He’s good defensively but still drifts out of games for too long offensively.

There were notable injuries in Ligue 1. Folarin Balogun is out with a separated shoulder, and he missed Monaco’s 2–1 loss to Nice on Sunday. With that loss, Monaco fell out of first place. Caleb Wiley remains sidelined with tendinitis in his knee, and he missed Strasburg 3-1 win over Nantes to move to 9th place.

Johnny Cardoso was one of the top American players in Europe this past weekend for a very good performance for Real Betis in a big 1-0 win over Atletico on Sunday. After a string of mixed performances, Cardoso now looks like the player who impressed when he first arrived in Spain from Brazil in January.

The New Jersey-born Cardoso was solid on both sides of the ball with 78 touches over 90 minutes and created two chances and won a huge percentage of his duels. He set up Vitor Roque for a missed shot in the 34th minute and he missed the target with a header in the 36th minute. His best pass was in the 15th minute when he hit a through ball that sent Abde Ezzalzouli alone on the keeper, who would then miss the shot.

????¡????????????????????????!???????? ???????????????????? ????????????????? ???????????? ???????????????? ????????????????????????????. pic.twitter.com/KySUXqqYXG

It was a very good performance overall from Cardoso who looked perfectly comfortable matched up against a top opponent in Atletico Madrid. Now it’s up to him to translate this level of performance over the USMNT, which has been difficult for him. Real Betis moved into fifth place of La Liga with this result.

Luca de la Torre is still out for Celta Vigo and did not take part in the club’s ugly 3-0 loss away to Leganes. Celta Vigo fell to 11th in La Liga with the loss.

Both Ricardo Pepi and Malik Tillman featured heavily for PSV in a 6–0 route over PEC Zwolle. The talent discrepancy between the two teams was apparent from the early going and it was Pepi who opened the scoring in the ninth minute with a splendid scissor kick goal.

In the 50th minute, Tillman made it 3–0 when he headed home a cross from a corner from close range.

Eight minutes later, Pepi got his second goal of the game with a shot from the middle of the box

Of course, PSV is rotating the squad a little bit due to schedule congestion. But for Pepi, performances, like these are critical to showing that he can help shoulder the burden to give Luuk de Jong a rest. PSV has a massive talent advantage against just about every team in the Eredivisie and they boast a perfect record and an eight point lead over second place Feyenoord. They need to be able to show they can dig deep into the roster.

Pepi airlines ??#PSVPEC pic.twitter.com/JYzanf3BLP

Pepi is in very good form right now and he now has five goals in nine games this season.

Paxten Aaronson and Taylor Booth both started for Utrecht on Sunday but it was a day to forget as they lost to Feyenoord 2-0 at home. Booth played 74 minutes by was limited to 19 touches, 6/8 passing, and was not part of anything dangerous offensively. Aaronson was a little bit more active on both sides of the ball. He set up Utrecht’s best chance of the game in the 67th minute with a through-ball that sent Nick Viergever alone on the keeper - who was able to make a nice save. Despite the loss; Utrecht remained in 2nd place, eight points behind PSV, and Feyenoord remained in third.

In the Dutch second tier, the Eereste Divisie, Dordrecht defeated last place Jong Utrecht 3-1 on Friday. American left back John Hilton, 23, assisted on Dordrecht’s opening goal in the 37th minute. Korede Osundina, 20, also started for Dordrecht which moved into sixth place with the win. Both Americans played all 90 minutes.

Also in the Eerste Divisie, Zach Booth started and played 70 minutes for Excelsior, which dropped a 1-0 decision at home to Cambuur. Excelsior remains in a promotion race despite the loss, which dropped them to third.

Three Yanks featured in Belgium as St. Truiden defeated Westerlo 2-0 on Saturday. Bryan Reynolds started and was subbed out in the 66th minute for Westerlo, recent U.S Olympic team winger Griffin Yow played the second half in the loss. For St. Truiden, Kahveh Zahiroleslam went 82 minutes.

Zahiroleslam was especially dangerous just before halftime when he had three shots and quick succession. At one point he had a very good shot that forced a tough save then he missed the rebound. One minute before he was subbed out he set up a very good chance for Isaias Delpupo that was saved.

Yow had one of his sharpest outings of the season in his 45 minutes. He set up two very good chances as Westerlo were chasing the game. Then in stoppage time, he had a very good shot that was saved.

Reynolds, meanwhile, had a quiet day at the office during the loss.

St. Truiden finish the weekend in 14th place in the 16-team league after the win. Westerlo continues to stumble after its hot start. It has now fallen to 8th place with this loss.

Marlon Fossey was a rare bright spot for Standard Liege which lost 3-0 away to Royal Antwerp. Fossey created four chances in the game before being subbed out in the 84th minute. Fossey gave Standard a chance to be competitive in the game when his cross set up Ilay Camara for a chance, that was missed, in the 8th minute with the game still scoreless. Also in the 22nd minute, the game was still scoreless and Fossey’s pass set up Dennis Eckert for a missed chance. Overall, Fossey gave his team a little life when they were otherwise overmatched by second place Antwerp. Standard fell to 10th place with the loss.

Andres Jasson went the full 90 minutes for Aalborg BK on Friday in a disappointing 1-1 draw with Silkeborg. AaB scored in the 8th minute and held the lead into second half stoppage time but conceded late. Jasson, 23, played well at right wing. He drew three fouls in the attacking half, won 6/8 of his ground duels, but missed the mark with two decent shots. AaB remained in ninth place with the draw.

Justin Che was an unused substitute for Brondby in a 0-0 home draw with league leaders Copenhagen in the Danish Superliga’s biggest Derby between Copenhagen most popular two clubs. Brondby sit sixth after the result.

It was a terrible result for Lyngby, which lost 2-0 away to Vejle Boldklub on Saturday. Vejle entered the game with just one point from its first 12 games of the season. Jonathan Amon came into the game late in the first half as Lyngby were looking for a different look. The South Carolina native created a couple of chances, but he was not able to avoid the disastrous result. Lyngby remain second from the bottom, five points clear of Vejle.

Jose Gallegos played five uneventful minutes for SonderjyskE on Sunday in a 4-2 loss to Viborg. SonderjyskE sites 10th in the 12-team league.

Toluca defeated Necaxa 3-1 away on Sunday. Frankie Amaya did not get off the bench for second-place Toluca while former U.S. U-20 midfielder Fernando Arce Jr. went the distance for 13th-place Necaxa.

Club America defeated Monterrey 2-1 on Sunday in a matchup between two of Mexico’s biggest teams. Alex Zendejas played the entire game for Club America while Brandon Vazquez played the final 30 minutes for Monterrey. Zendejas had two good chances (in the 12th and 66th minutes) but missed the target each time. Despite that, he worked hard and was an asset to keeping Club America on the front foot. Vazquez, meanwhile, only had six touches and was 2/2 in passing, with no shots, in a very quiet performance.

Vamos con la segunda parte del partido. ???? pic.twitter.com/ENOSyRNWeA

Monterrey sits fourth after the loss while Club America rose from 10th to 9th in Liga MX.

Ventura Alvarado was an unused substitute for 13th place Mazatlan in a 0-0 away draw with Santos Laguna.

Cade Cowell started and played 74 minutes for Chivas in a 1-0 away loss to Puebla on Friday. The former San Jose winger had a shot from close range saved in the 12th minute. He finished with 54 touches, which reflected a busy outing for the young attacker.

Joe Corona went 90 minutes for Tijuana in a 0-0 away draw with Atlas. It was a quiet performance from the former USMNT midfielder.

Matko Miljevic continues to see his career back on the upswing as the Miami-born midfielder had a strong 85-minute shift for Newell’s Old Boys in a 1-1 draw with Sarmiento on Saturday. 13 of his 36 completed passes were balls played into the attacking third. He created 5 chances, and was successful in 7/8 of his dribbles. His crosses were on point 4/6 of his attempts. He also won 12/16 of his ground duels. Miljevic, 23, always had a lot of talent but had issues off the field. Is he now finally realizing this potential? Maybe he is a late bloomer?

Newell’s Old Boys sit 24th in the 28-team Argentine Primera.

Auston Trusty played all 90 minutes and Cameron Carter-Vickers made his return from a toe injury (which sidelined him for over a month) as Celtic defeated Motherwell 3-0 away on Sunday. CCV had clearly been missed by Celtic as the team had a few losses in the Champions League and a disappointing 2-2 draw with Aberdeen last weekend.

This game saw Trusty on the ball a ton has Celtic dominated possession 78-22. The former Philadelphia Union homegrown central defender was 148/152 in passing which included 9/9 long balls and 22 passes played into the final third. These games remain tough to assess as Celtic is rarely tested against Scottish opponents outside of Rangers and this season, Aberdeen. Trusty was able to sit high and make passes without pressure.

???? "It’s an excellent performance and result on the back end of a physically demanding week."Manager delighted with 3-0 win over Motherwell ?#MOTCEL | #CelticFC????

As for CCV, it was a decent performance off the bench, but nothing too special to report. But it was good for Celtic to have him back ahead of European games. Celtic remain atop the Premiership table by virtue of goal differential over Aberdeen.

American midfielder Rokas Pukstas, 20, played the final 29 minutes for Hajduk Split in a 2-1 win over Lokomotiva. It was a quiet performance from the Oklahoma native, who was on the field for his team’s winning goal in the 76th minute. The victory ensured Hajduk remained six points clear atop of the HNL table.

As for Pukstas, his role has been declining a little bit in recent weeks, and he is not starting regularly. It remains to be seen if this is part of keeping him healthy ahead of the winter transfer window, or if he just does not have a big role right now with the manager. There were many reports with statements from club officials that Pukstas was going to be sold this past summer, but that never materialized with an offer that was high enough for Hajduk. We will see if anything has changed soon.

Also of note, Gedion Zelalem was an unused substitute for NK Lokomotiva.

In Ireland’s Premier Division, Galway United played Sligo Rovers to a 2-2 draw on Friday. Patrick Hickey assisted Jimmy Keohane on Galway’s first goal, which evened the game 1-1. The result, however, meant that Galway United, managed by Bronx-born John Caufield, would not finish in the top four to contend for a spot in Europe next year. Hicky went 90 minutes in the game while fellow American midfielder Vincent Borden was pulled at the half for Galway.

In Finland’s playoff for a Conference League spot, American goalkeeper AJ Maucci (on loan from the New York Red Bulls) made one stop in a shootout, but ultimately his IF Gnistan team lost 3-3 (4-3) to FC Haka. The American goalkeeper had a productive loan in Finland and will now return back to the United States and look to earn a spot with the Red Bulls in preseason.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, it was a tough day for George Bello, who went 90 minutes for LASK in a 2–1 loss at home to league leaders Sturm Graz on Sunday. The former Atlanta United left back was quiet until the 90th minute when he had a good chance to score the equalizer but saw his left-footed chance saved. LASK remained in 8th place with the loss.

Also in the Austrian Bundesliga, Quincy Butler played all 90 minutes for WSG Tirol in an ugly 3-0 loss away to Austria Vienna. Outside of one shot in the 31st minute that forced to save, it was a quiet day for Butler. The former Sacramento Republic winger also drew three fouls in the loss.

In the Swiss Super League, Konrad de la Fuente played the final 20 minutes for Lausanne in a 3-0 win over Grasshopper (whose majority owner is now Los Angeles FC). De la Fuente drew the penalty for Lausanne’s final goal in the 88th minute. Lausanne rose to 7th place with the win while Grasshopper fell to 11th in the 12-team league.

In Poland’s Ekstraklassa, Former NYCFC academy product Adam Basse, 16, made his professional debut with Slask Wroclaw on Saturday in a 0-0 draw with Rakow Cz?stochowa. The young defender (eligible for the USA, Poland, and Cameroon) entered the game in the 80th minute to keep the clean sheet.

Staying in the Ekstraklassa, Ian Hoffmann was an unused substitute for league leaders Lech Poznan in a 2-1 win over Radomia Radom on Saturday. Danny Trejo was an unused substitute for Korona Kielce in a 3-1 loss away to Jagiellonia Bialystok. Korona Kielce sits 15th in the 18-team Ekstraklassa.

In Slovakia, Zyen Jones played the last 13 minutes for FC Kosice in a 3-1 away win over DAC 1904 Dunajska Streda. FC Kosice moved into fifth place in the top-tier Super Liga. Staying in Slovakia, newly acquired forward Eduvie Ikoba and Zemplin Michalovce defeated Skalice 2-1 on Sunday to move to ninth place.

In the championship round robin of Iceland Besta Deildin, Aron Johannsson played 70 minutes in midfield for Valur in a 6-1 romp over IA Akranes on Saturday. Johannsson made the switch two years ago from striker into midfield and it has gone well. Valur is cruising to a third place finish.

In the Greek Super League, Jonathan Gomez went 80 minutes for reigning champs PAOK in a 2-1 loss at home to OFI Crete on Sunday. Gomez had a nice goal line clearance, but otherwise did not have a performance to remember. PAOK fell to second with the loss.

Also in Greece, Erik Palmer-Brown remains out for Panathinaikos, who played Aris to a 1-1 draw on Sunday.

In Norway, Christian Cappis came off the bench for Viking in the 90th minute and thought he had a goal seconds later but VAR inexplicably took it away on an offside call. Replay seems to suggest the American was in his own half when he received the ball. That would have given Viking a 3-1 win. Viking still won 2-1 to remain in 4th place in Norway’s top tier Eliteserien.

Staying in the Eliteserien, Adam Saldana was again an unused substitute for 7th place KFUM Oslo in a 2-1 loss to Sandefjord.
