IT’S GAMEDAY IN GLENDALE, Arizona as the United States national team will host Mexico in what will likely be a pro-Mexico crowd at State Farm Stadium. The two teams are set to meet on June 15 in Las Vegas in the Nations League and with this game not being played on a FIFA international date, the likely objective is to evaluate players, experiment in tactics, and build towards a busy future that also includes the Nations League, Gold Cup, Copa America, and the Olympics.

Of course, it’s easy to downplay tonight (April 19, 10:22pm EST TBS, Telemundo, Universo and Peacock) but when the United States and Mexico play, things are never calm or relaxed. While there is nothing much on the line for the team itself, there is a lot at stake for the players.

Typically, in the year following a World Cup, there is a bit of a rebuild as some older players are phased out and promising young players are given minutes to see if they can be integrated later in the cycle. But following the team’s failure to qualify for the 2018 World Cup, the U.S. team tore down a huge portion of the previous core and built the team up largely from scratch. The U.S. entered the 2022 World Cup team with maybe not the youngest team in Qatar, but the youngest team based on who played.

That means the U.S. team is entering the 2026 cycle with fewer openings given that players like Christian Pulisic, Gio Reyna, Yunus Musah, West McKennie, Sergino Dest, Antonee Robinson, Tyler Adams, and Tim Weah are not going anywhere. The backup positions are also trending younger.

Yes, no one except for a healthy Pulisic and Adams are irreplaceable on the roster but the bar is very high to make the U.S. team right now. But there are opportunities to make a case. Tonight’s game against Mexico is one. The U-20 World Cup next month is another. The Olympics has historically been a very useful launching pad for young players."I've heard of 'A-teams' and 'B-teams' and players needing to do well to make another roster, I just see that we have a really strong player pool," Interim manager Anthony Hudson said. "I would say that for every single time we get together, players need to play well and perform to make sure they're in the next camp. This is no different. We have a good group and there are plenty of opportunities for players. If they do well, they're going to be in contention for the next time."

But let’s look at what tonight has to offer for the players.

ASN broke down the roster when it was released last week but there were a few changes as Cristian Roldan and Paul Arriola withdrew and Paxton Pomykal was added. Those changes likely won’t significantly impact what we learn tonight. Arriola and Roldan are among the most known players based domestically. Pomykal was just seen in January camp to mixed results.

GOALKEEPERS (3): Drake Callender (Inter Miami; 0/0), Roman Celentano (FC Cincinnati; 0/0), Sean Johnson (Toronto FC/CAN; 11/0)

DEFENDERS (9): Sergiño Dest (AC Milan/ITA; 24/2), Aaron Long (LAFC; 31/3), Julian Gressel (Vancouver Whitecaps/CAN; 2/0), Matt Miazga (FC Cincinnati; 22/1), Shaq Moore (Nashville SC; 17/1), Caleb Wiley (Atlanta United; 0/0), Joshua Wynder (Louisville City; 0/0), DeAndre Yedlin (Inter Miami; 77/0), Walker Zimmerman (Nashville SC; 39/3)

MIDFIELDERS (6): Kellyn Acosta (LAFC; 57/2), Aidan Morris (Columbus Crew; 2/0), Paxton Pomykal (FC Dallas; 2/0) James Sands (New York City FC; 7/0), Alan Soñora (FC Juárez/MEX; 2/0), Jackson Yueill (San Jose Earthquakes; 16/0)

FORWARDS (4): Cade Cowell (San Jose Earthquakes; 2/0), Jesús Ferreira (FC Dallas; 17/7), Jordan Morris (Seattle Sounders; 51/11), Brandon Vazquez (FC Cincinnati; 2/1)

Don’t be surprised if the U.S. team plays in a 4-4-2 at least at some point during this game. The roster is aligned better for that given that there are only two wingers on the team in Cade Cowell and Jordan Morris. The forward situation seems to be better set up for that. Morris has been having success this season also playing as a forward. Jesus Ferreira has always been a better second forward than a No. 9. Brandon Vazquez could also be a No.9 that plays better off a partner."We're just going to look at all the players we've got and try to get them into their best positions," Hudson said. "Get our best players on the field to start the game. Whether that is up front or out wide, Jordan is very dangerous.

The likely bet is still a 4-3-3 with a shift to the 4-4-2 in the second half.

That roster would allow Hudson to look at a few newer players such as Aidan Morris, Sonora, Vazquez, and Cowell while balancing it with some known players like Acosta, Jordan Morris, Dest, and Zimmerman. Then in the second half, he can tweak the lineup with more newer players and some veterans like Jesus Ferreira.

What could be a productive use of tonight? Here are a few:

Prepping for no Adams: Will Tyler Adams, who has been out since March with a pulled hamstring, be back in time for the summer? That remains to be seen. But Hudson should prepare as if the captain will not be there in the defensive midfield position. Acosta will probably continue to be used at this position this summer and the LAFC midfielder has historically been very effective against Mexico. But Aidan Morris plays both the No. 6 and No. 8 positions for Columbus and seems like a strong candidate for the Olympic team next year. Morris could be an important player tonight against Mexico. If he plays well, he could be involved this summer and then the Olympics in 2024. Those two tournaments could give him a significant opportunity. He’s had a strong start to the 2023 season but now can he rise to the occasion against Mexico.

Dest’s mindset: Sergino Dest is a core to the U.S. national team but he’s in the middle of a disastrous lost season on loan from Barcelona to AC Milan and the Italian club has no interest in him. Dest isn’t even making the matchday rosters right now. He will return to Barca this summer but Barca will need to unload him for budget purposes. Dest needs games and needs to use this to spark some sort of interest in him. He will probably get the start at left back given that the team has several right back options but few options on the left side. The question becomes where is Dest’s form and mindset these days? He’s an important player, but has his negative situation this season hurt his game? If so, to what extent?

Sonora’s role: Alan Sonora was one of the more anticipated debutants at the January camp and he was rusty when he appeared. But Hudson has been intent on giving him an extended look. He was called up March for the Nations League games but did not play. He now gets the call-up against Mexico. But his move over the winter from Independiente to Club Juarez in Liga MX hasn’t been great. He has made just six appearances including one start for just 172 minutes. The question now is whether he is in the plans for this summer? Is this his last look until his club situation improves? If he doesn’t have a good game against Mexico, he’s probably going have to substantially improve at Juarez to earn future call-ups.

The U-20 trio: There are three players on this roster who will likely shift focus to the U-20 World Cup team after this camp: Cade Cowell, Caleb Wiley, and Josh Wynder. Cowell appeared in the January friendlies and did well, so he’s in a different spot than the other two. But Wiley has been one of the top young players in MLS to start the MLS season. How does he look at the full international level? Could Hudson play him at left wing as opposed to his preferred left back? He has done that in Atlanta. Also, Wynder is a very young central defender who looks set to move to Benfica after he turns 18. He’s a top 2005-born American player and this should be a big boost in his confidence.

Vazquez’s opportunity: The U.S. national team forward position is in flux. While Ricardo Pepi has taken big steps in his game, others have not. Daryl Dike will miss substantial time with an injury. Haji Wright and Josh Sargent are World Cup veterans and are good options, but not locks. Folarin Balogun is not yet committed. Jesus Ferreira is more of a second forward than a true No. 9. Brandon Vazquez is a true No. 9. He had a great 2022 but the goals have not been there in 2023, despite Cincinnati continue to be near the top of the east. Still, Borussia Monchengladbach is interested, and their sporting director recently travelled to watch Vazquez. More eyes should be on Vazquez against Mexico. A big outing could be very useful for his career both with the U.S. team and at the club level.

Formation experiments: As mentioned, Hudson has not been nearly as rigid with the 4-3-3 formation as Gregg Berhalter was. But how will the players and team overall adapt to having different formations? Will there be confusion? Or will it show a different look that gives the team more options to throw at good opponents? Hudson said on Tuesday that he is open to the idea but this camp is so short that he has only had two days with his players - including a walkthrough. He said against Mexico it might be tough to change things. "Over the last three and a half or four years, Gregg did a good job with a clear 4-3-3," Hudson said. "We've changed it slightly. The good thing about this team is that they're used to a little bit of flexibility.... but it's difficult without having more training days to make too many changes. But for sure, there will be one or two."

Diego Cocca was hired as Mexico's manager on February 10th after previously serving as the head coach for Tigres UANL. A native of Argentina Cocca replaced his countryman Tata Martino who was dismissed after the World Cup where Mexico failed to advance to the knockouts.

Cocca's roster includes 23 players with 21 coming from Liga MX. Former U.S. youth international Julian Araujo earned the call-up after securing his transfer from the LA Galaxy to Barcelona. Jesus Gallardo has earned 82 caps with Mexico and is in camp. The most dangerous player is Cruz Azul's Uriel Antuna with nine goals in 40 appearances with El Tri.

Hudson opened up to the media on Tuesday about his time as the interim United States national team manager. He showed a human side that can be uncommon for someone who knows he is a caretaker during the time of an organizational transition.

“I've been so fortunate to have been part of such a really special group of people and staff,” Hudson said. “Transitioning into this role, with the support of the staff, it's been good. It has been smooth. I've enjoyed it.”

“When you see the determination from these players you just really respect it,” he added. “I say this every day, and sometimes I'm not good at it, but it's not about me. It's about the players. All I want is to do all I can to help them keep moving forward. That’s it.”

One wonders what will happen to Hudson after U.S. Soccer names the head coach – whether it be Gregg Berhalter or someone else.

There is no talk yet of who the head coach of the U.S. U-23 team will be but the Olympics are in 2024 and U.S. Soccer will likely want to start having U-23 camps later in the year to prepare for that tournament. But there are several options. First, it could be the assistant to the next U.S. national team head coach, or it could be someone who is familiar with the next coach to ensure a smooth working relationship. Second, U.S. Soccer could hire someone independently from outside the organization. Third, U.S. Soccer could promote from within the organization with an eye towards people who have familiarity with the U-23 pool. That could mean a guy like Mikey Varas after the U-20 World Cup.

But it could also put Hudson in the running. He has now worked with several U-23 eligible players in three different capacities – the U-20 head coach (albeit in a COVID-shortened cycle), the U.S national team assistant, and the interim U.S. head coach.

The U.S. national team last week learned its opponents in the Gold Cup. The team was drawn into Group A with Jamaica, Nicaragua, and a Preliminary qualifier that is TBD.

On Tuesday, the venues and dates were set.

June 24: #USMNT vs. Jamaica at Soldier Field, Chicago, IL

June 28: #USMNT vs. Preliminary Winner at CITYPARK, St. Louis, MO

July 2: #USMNT vs. Nicaragua at Bank of America Stadium, Charlotte, NC

The top two teams from each group advance.

If the #USMNT advances from Group A, they will play in Cincinnati on July 9 for the quarterfinal against an opponent from Group D. The winner of Group A plays the runner-up of Group D. The runner-up from Group A plays the winner of Group D. Group D consists of Canada, Guatemala, Cuba, and a preliminary winner.

What is somewhat different about the Gold Cup this year is that it is entirely possible for the U.S. and Mexico to meet before the final. Normally, their groups were placed entirely on opposite sides of the knockout bracket. But if either the U.S. or Mexico advance to the knockouts as a runner up and the other advances as a group winner, they will be on a path to meet in the semifinal.

But at least this year there is no third-place game.

From an American perspective, there were a few games of interest.

Chelsea dropped a 2-0 decision to Real Madrid at Stamford Bridge for a 4-0 aggregate loss in the Champions League quarterfinal. The depressing season moves on for the London-based club. Christian Pulisic was an unused substitute and he is just one of many American players in Europe having a season to forget.

AC Milan defeated Napoli 2-1 on aggregate after a 1-1 draw in Naples. Obviously Sergino Dest is not with the team and was allowed to play for the U.S. team this week. It would be a huge surprise if he features for them the rest of this year, but anything is possible.In the Copa Libertadores, Johny Cardoso and Internacional defeated Venezuela's Metropolitanos FC 1-0 in Brazil. The U.S. midfielder started but was subbed out at halftime when it was 0-0. Internacional found a stoppage time winner and now has four points from two group stage games. Also in the Copa Libertadores, Independiete del Valle defeated Uruguay's Liverpool FC 2-0. American winger Michael Hoyos assisted on the opening goal in the 27th minute. He was subbed out in the 73rd minute with his Ecuadorian team up 2-0.

???????????? Junior Sornoza with the opener for @IDV_EC in Quito!#GloriaEterna pic.twitter.com/CnWmwA5nNg

In the Championship, Daryl Dike is done for the season but his West Bromwich Albion defeated Blackpool 2-0.

Lynden Gooch started and played all 90 minutes for Sunderland in a 1-1 draw with Huddersfield. Jaheim Headley played 90 minutes at left back for Huddersfield although ASN has learned he wants to opt to play for Jamaica.

Auston Trusty was sick and missed Birmingham City’s very impressive 1-0 win over Millwall in London.

In the Canadian Championship: U.S. U-23 hopeful Bryce Duke made his first appearance since getting traded to CF Montreal and he was on the right side of a 2-0 win over Vaughan Azzurri. The only other American to start for Montreal was goalkeeper Logan Ketterer, 29, who made just one save in the clean sheet win.On Wednesday, Haji Wright and Antalyaspor will visit Istanbulspor in the Turkish Super Lig. Wright is tied for fourth in the league with 13 goals and today's opponent is in the relegation zone. Antalyaspor meanwhile sits in 10th place. In the Championship on Wednesday, a struggling Norwich visits Queens Park Rangers. Josh Sargent scored his 12th goal over the weekend in a 5-1 loss to Middlesbrough. Norwich is just two points out of the playoff positions but is not playing well. Both American goalkeepers in England's second tier are in a promotional race where they will both likely qualify for the playoffs. On Wednesday, Ethan Horvath and third-place Luton Town visit Reading while Zack Steffen and fourth-place Middlesbrough host Hull City. Tonight in the Canadian Championships, Osaze De Rosario and York United host Vancouver FC.
