ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT, MLS had a full slate of games – its first of the summer since the conclusion of the Euros and the Copa America and it was an eventful day as Cavan Sullivan became the youngest player in the history of the league to play in a game, the Sounders look back to themselves, and we also have some major roster rules that will give teams more flexibility.

Anyway, let’s get right into it with my thoughts.

MLS moves forward, not at the speed fans of the game here would like, but it does move forward. But when you look back to 1996, it’s way different now. For example, the first Metrostars (pre Red Bulls) General Manager was Charlie Stillitano and he has said that at the time he wanted to start an academy but the league blocked him on the grounds it would give the Metrostars and unfair advantage.

Well, 28 years from then and things look a lot different and the changes are for the better with academies, homegrown deals, designated players, TAM, GAM, and the U-22 initiatives. Confusing? Sure. But it has helped raise the quality of play with allowing teams to bring in better players, prioritize youth, and develop from within.

Last winter, people were hoping for either the relaxing of rules or the addition of more rules that promote investment. That didn’t happen and many fans were disappointed. But today, there were new rules put into place.

It’s a little confusing, so here is the graphic between the two paths clubs can choose how to use what they call the six prime roster slots (Designated Players and U-22 Initiative).

Clubs can now to convert up to $3 million of total transfer revenues received into General Allocation Money without restriction on the amount from any individual player transfer. It previously was $1,215,506.

That’s a big step up.

Bottom Line: Team are still restricted, but the ties are loosened. There are now ways for teams build nice rosters. The U-22 initiative encourages teams to buy younger players, which is huge in that it prevents an NASL or Saudi League path towards older players near retirement. It also allows teams to reinvest more money from transfers. It’s not total freedom, but it’s more investment and it’s more motivation to develop and sell.

Cavan Sullivan made his MLS debut with the Philadelphia Union at 14 years and 293 days. Is that good? He came on in the 85th minute of a 5-1 win over the New England Revolution in a matchup between the bottom two teams in the Eastern Conference. The Union managed to climb out of last with the result. It was the most positive media attention the club has received after a woefully disappointing 2024.

It wasn’t just Cavan’s debut. The Union got a hat trick from Tai Baribo, and a wonder goal from Cavan’s older brother, Quinn Sullivan, just before Cavan came into the game.

It’s the Sullivan family Christmas Card right here. - Banger from Quinn- Celebrates with Cavan- Cavan comes into the game for his debut immediately following this - Meanwhile, the #NERevs are not back, as we thought last month. They’re still bad pic.twitter.com/IJok0Dmbk1

It was the first time the Union looked like the Union we all knew was possible. Yes, the Revolution are dealing with a ton of injuries, but they were awful. The Union need a long run of playing well to get into playoff contention and then they need to reevaluate their core group that has been together for a long time.

As for the Cavan Sullivan debut, the cat is out of the bag. How will Jim Curtin manage this rest of the season? It’s going to be tricky.

The younger Sullivan had a nice moment when he took a pass and had some space. He moved into the final third and ripped a shot from outside the box that was saved.

Afterward, Cavan received a congratulatory note from Freddy Adu. Is that good?

Talented, brilliant, incredible, amazing, show stopping, spectacular #cf97 pic.twitter.com/oX0qdzmQlH

Pec ?? Paintsil The @LAGalaxy retake the lead! pic.twitter.com/6jHf4XMTbu

Never rule us out. pic.twitter.com/CNSHRLk9Cn
