THE UNITED STATES IS THROUGH to the semifinals of the 2025 Gold Cup after defeating Costa Rica in a shootout following a 2-2 score after 90 minutes. The big takeaway is that while the U.S. team is not where it needs to be, there are noticeable improvements as the team is showing fight, resiliency, and not collapsing when hit with adversity.

Over the past year, the U.S. team has been its own worst enemy and has struggled to get through difficult moments – such as Tim Weah’s red card against Panama at the Copa America, or the multitude of mistakes at the Nations League in March. This has been a tough task for head coach Mauricio Pochettino to fix.

Against Costa Rica in a knockout game, the U.S. team fought through their own mistakes and kept pressing until they won. Sure, tougher opponents will provide a more accurate measuring stick. But winning tough CONCACAF games is certainly a good starting point given that the team was struggling against similar teams recently.

On Sunday night, the U.S. gifted Costa Rica a goal after Max Arfsten conceded a penalty. Then later in the first half, Malik Tillman failed to convert a penalty that would have evened the game.

This was a game that the U.S. team might have seemingly wilted in recent months. But the U.S. team kept pushing. Diego Luna equalized just before the half and then Arfsten put the U.S. team ahead early in the second half.

It’s a total team effort. pic.twitter.com/boXDGiscfB

After Costa Rica equalized later in the second half with poor defending, the U.S. found a difference maker in Matt Freese who made three saves in the shootout to get the team through.

This is a classic example of a glass that is either half full or half empty. It’s now how you want to look at it? Mistakes are bad. Fighting through it is good. Not making mistakes and winning comfortably is optimal.

I don’t think anyone is making this result as a clear sign the team is where it wants to be ahead of the World Cup. But some of the elements that the team displayed against Costa Rica have been missing.

The best you can say, and the correct take, is that his was a win which the team can build. Slowly there is more positivity around the group and it took a winning mindset to prevail. Now, they just have to play better.

Here are some thoughts on the game.

Max Arfsten had a baffling game. He was part of all four goals. He conceded the penalty. Then he assisted on the equalizer with a nice pass to Diego Luna. Then he scored after being set up by Tillman. He then helped create a few other chances. Then he failed to defend effectively on the second Costa Rica goal.

The deal with Arfsten is that he is a winger by trade. He was only converted to being a wingback by Columbus Crew head coach Wilfried Nancy. But that formation one where he typically has three central defenders behind him in a three-man backline.

A golden hour moment in the @GoldCup for @maxarfsten's first international goal! ? pic.twitter.com/Dr33KUFQjh

Now, he comes to the national team and is playing a more traditional left back role. At times, it looks as if he is uncomfortable. He allows too much space and needs to defend more 1v1 situations against opposing wingers.

On the flip side, he is aggressive getting forward and he does provide some effective width in the U.S. team’s attack.

The question is how quickly or even if he will improve his shortcomings? Will he work on playing a traditional left back position at Columbus – or at another club if he moves?

Arfsten is a good player in certain roles and certain formations. But does that make him a good fit for the USMNT moving forward?

Matt Freese wasn’t tested much in the group stages and he didn’t have to make many big saves. But his one standout moment wasn’t positive as he gave the ball away trying to play out of the back against Haiti and surrendered a goal in the process.

Despite questions, Pochettino stuck with Freese and Freese came up big in the shootout with a trio of big stops.

When observing Pochettino’s style in his first year as the coach, he seems to be forgiving when players make a mistake. Afterall, any player can make a mistake.

When we needed a big stop on Sunday night, Matt Freese delivered three of 'em. ???????????? pic.twitter.com/U357Ka1yCm

Instead, he wants to see players respond well by not making a similar mistake and by raising their game. Freese did everything that Pochettino wanted.

Freese is probably in a better position than many realize. Goalkeeping coach Toni Jimenez is key member of Pochettino’s staff at every stop. Pochettino trusts Jimenez and Jimenez works with the U.S. keepers. This certainly not a “gut” decision from Pochettino to give Freese the starting job at this tournament. Rather, Freese must be showing well in training and matching what Jimenez/Pochettino want to be given this opportunity.

If Freese makes the most of this tournament, he could continue as the starter heading into the fall. Matt Turner clearly is under pressure to change things.

Alex Freeman hasn’t had any big moments at this Gold Cup, but he has been consistently solid. This is even more impressive considering that he is still in his first season as a starter for Orlando City. He earned a lot of rave reviews for his performances this season and it is easy to see the reasons for the hype. The fullback position in the modern game demands elite athleticism – and Freeman has that in droves.

ALEX FREEMAN MAKES THE PENALTY FOR THE @USMNT ????????:????????????:???? pic.twitter.com/xtJBapDFzC

It is easy to see why Pochettino is interested in Freeman. Freeman covers the lines well and can keep up with speedy wingers. He also thrives in the physical side of the game. He tackles, wins duels, doesn’t get bumped off the ball, and he is a huge help in set pieces.

What is also interesting is that Freeman took the fourth penalty kick in the shootout. That is sign that the team and coaches respect his maturity at the stage of his career.

Freeman, 20, is still green and still has a lot to learn. But it should not be surprising at all if Freeman is seen by the staff as a World Cup player next year.

Former USMNT head coach and World Cup defender Gregg Berhalter attended the game, which was good. A parent who has a long history with the national team should enjoy seeing his son get such an opportunity.

Sticking with Sebastian Berhalter, he missed his shootout attempt but he continues to be dependable and solid. It still is a tough path for him to make the World Cup team, but he’s in the mix. His set piece deliveries have been consistently dangerous – and that is something that has not been great for the USMNT for quite some time.

If Berhalter is to increase his chances of making the World Cup team, he must adapt to the physical side of the game more. His skill on the ball is sufficient, but being able to shield the backline and win balls is important.

Gregg Berhalter is in the house watching Sebastian Berhalter and the USMNT take on Costa Rica pic.twitter.com/naZdXjTDpM

This tournament continues to show the strength of Tyler Adams. There isn’t anyone else in the pool who can do what he does as a defensive midfielder. After this tournament, Pochettino really needs to figure out what is Plan B in Adams can’t go. Does he go back and keep looking at players such as Tanner Tessmann or Aidan Morris?

Patrick Agyemang didn’t score, but he had a good game. His hold up play was pretty important to what the U.S. team wanted. Often as the team transitioned into the attack, the plan was to get the ball to Agyemang who would then play it off to others. His physicality really allows him to handle those responsibilities well.

It was good to see Damion Downs have his first big moment for the USMNT when he scored the winning shootout goal. He has a very bright future and moments like that can help build up his connection with the badge.

Interesting parallels in the shootout. Freeman is the son of a legendary NFL wild receiver but who never showed much interest in American football. Born in Germany, Downs spent much of his childhood in Texas where he fell in love with American football – only adopting soccer at the age of nine when he moved back to Germany. Both Freeman and Downs scored to help the USMNT prevail.

Malik Tillman has been the best player in the entire Gold Cup, so far. In this game, it was a little harder for him as he missed a penalty and was dispossessed four times. Despite that, he still converted his shootout attempt and assisted on Arfsten’s goal. He was yet another player who showed some resilience to contribute to the victory.

Tillman has had a big year, and the coming 12-13 months are going to be even bigger. His value has skyrocketed and next year he should be a big part of the equation for the USMNT.

Put it on net and good things happen.pic.twitter.com/gnKtokCeQv

Diego Luna scored a big goal that equalized the game. Yes, it took a deflection, but the skill was in how he controlled the pass from Arfsten. It was a very nice touch. Luna can go quiet for stretches, but he always has the potential to pop up and make something happen.

Overall, the U.S. team played well but the weakness was in how the U.S. midfield lost control of the game for a long stretch in the second half that allowed Costa Rica to build back into it. Part of that is on Pochettino who didn’t make any changes until the 78th minute. It is puzzling that he waited that long, especially after Costa Rica’s subs in the 58th minute brought life into the game for them.

It raises the possibility that Pochettino really likes that USMNT lineup and did not trust his bench in that moment. Johnny Cardoso’s ankle is bothering him and Haji Wright has already left the team with an injury. That already left Pochettino with limited options.

But it was also telling that neither Aaronson brother got into the game, and both are fresh and both are on the roster bubble as it is.
