RIGHT NOW, MLS games are coming fast as the league had its first slate of midweek games – which tested depths for many teams. The results speak for themselves as some teams were not ready to play games on the short week. Meanwhile, the kids continue to play well amid a breakout season for young players, particularly young Americans. The condensed schedule should only continue to open doors for young players.

Here are some thoughts on now U.S. youth internationals performed this week.

The improvements Julian Hall made from last season to this season are exciting. Frankly, last season he did not look ready when given the opportunities with the first team. In 2024 when he made his debut, he had some big moments. But in 2025 when expectations were raised, his performances suffered.

This year, he just moves so well in the box to get in great positions. He scored another goal on Wednesday, this in a 4-4 draw with DC United. He now has 8 across all competitions.

Julian Hall moves so well in the box. he’s made huge strides this yearHis 8th of the season in all competitions for #RBNY For me, the starting striker for the U.S U-20 team, with a good chance of starting for the Olympic team soon after pic.twitter.com/nGkNJBTNUO

His goals have all looked easy. It’s often with an open shot from close range inside the box. But there is a lot of sophistication with how he runs and moves. His goals also come with chemistry

Staying with the Red Bulls, Adri Mehmeti, 17, played 64 mins, did well with the ball. He was part of the build-up to Hall’s goal. Mehmeti is currently very up and down, which should be expected for his age. The hope is that by the end of the season, he will be ready to deliver results consistently.

Also of note, left back Matthew Dos Santos, 18, was part of the second goal when his cross was deflected before finding Ronald Donkor who was open for a shot. Dos Santos was later pulled at halftime.

Donkor doubles the @NewYorkRedBulls lead! pic.twitter.com/IEXWyap6GF

Michael Bradley has a tough job playing this many young players. How does he balance between holding kids accountable and benching them when they don’t perform well compared with trusting them and continuing to play them to allow them to learn?

Peyton Miller scored the winning goal the New England Revolution against Atlanta. He came into the game in the 66th minute and scored 12 minutes later.

It's P Millz time ????#ATLvNE https://t.co/UVJSyibUWe pic.twitter.com/ab31d8FDy0

Miller is a top prospect in the league and within the federation, as he played in the most recent U-20 World Cup up a cycle. It remains to be seen if he plays with the U-20 team or the Olympic team this year.

Brooklyn Raines is quietly growing into a good role with New England. He's playing noticably better than he was at the beginning of the season, which is to be expected as it took time to adjust into the team. He is another player who should be part of the early Olympic team camps pater this year.

Luke Brennan continues to play only limited minutes for Atlanta United, who have been a disaster to start the season. If Tata Martino wants to shake things up, given Brennan more minutes would be a good place to start. Otherwise, Brennan could probably get some value with a trade (and likely a sell-on).

Taha Habroune is likely a bubble player for the Olympic team at the start of the cycle, but he will get invited to camps early in the cycle. If he played like he did this week for Columbus in a 2-1 win over the Galaxy, he'll make the Olympic team and play. It was his best game since last summer and he was the best player on the field.

Harbor Miller was quiet for the Galaxy in the loss. He played the final 28 mins plus stoppage time.

Frankie Westfield has finally started to resemble the player he looked like he could be in 2025 for Philadelphia. He was one of the league’s top young players last year but 2026 hasn't been nearly as kind for him. He has been working through a tough period in his development with the team struggling, but it was encouraging this past week in a 3-3 draw with Toronto. Regardless, Westfield still has a great chance to be the starting right back for the Olympic team.

Nolan Norris went 90 minutes for Dallas at left back in a 1-0 loss to Minnesota. Despite the result, Norris played well. I am unsure about his ceiling but he is a good player with a high floor. He should have a long career as an effective player. His versatility should keep him in the mix to make the Olympic team. He could start effectively, and he could also be a backup in central defense, left back, and in defensive midfield.

Zavier Gozo had his moments for Real Salt Lake in a 2-0 loss Inter Miami. Real Salt Lake was in this game until the end before Luis Suarez and Rodrigo de Paul scored impressive goals. Gozo created a very dangerous chance in the 4th minute (missed by Sergi Solans) and then missed a chance of his own in the 54th.

Niko Tsakiris was great in the second half for San Jose, which turned a 1-0 deficit into a 5-1 win over Austin. Tsakiris is finally on path to being the player we all hoped he would. He has had a great start to the season and he had an assist in this one on the first Quakes goal via a corner.

From the corner to the back of the net! Jack Jasinski equalizes for @SJEarthquakes ???? pic.twitter.com/gYa2xKottU
