GOOD MORNING AND happy Wednesday to ASN readers everywhere. The World Cup is well in the rearview mirror and we are looking forward to the return of the MLS season and the start on the European season. And with that, there is a lot of news.

Here is a morning update to start your day.

On Monday, Bild Sport in Germany reported that Borussia Monchengladbach have made its U.S. national team duo of Gio Reyna and Joe Scally available for sale. The biggest reason is that the club is looking to shed salary and both Americans make around €1.5 million per year.

Scally has been with Borussia Monchengladbach for over five years since being acquired from New York City FC. Over that time, he has played over 2000 minutes per season every year and should be able to find a new club.

For Reyna, it is a bit more problematic as injuries and form have kept him out of the starting lineup the last four seasons. He might have trouble finding another club to match that salary given his scant body of work the last few years. But this is not good news that he has to move on so quickly. It will not be easy to find another to match his salary. Monchengladbach might have to continue to pay a portion of it to have him move.

MLS returns in full on Wednesday night with a full slate of action with the following games.

Cincinnati vsVancouver is one of the best games on the docket. Vancouver is an MLS contender, but will the team be able to keep U.S. international Sebastian Berhalter through to the end of the year? Meanwhile, Cincinnati has not played up to its potential in the first half of the season.

Philadelphia and the New York Red Bulls will meet in a game that will be loaded with several top U.S. youth internationals. Julian Hall and Adri Mehmeti should start for the Red Bulls while U.S. Olympic hopeful right back Frankie Westfield and central defender Neil Pierre rejoined Philadelphia this month from his loan to Lyngby. He is one of the top young central defenders in the U.S. system. Then there is Cavan Sullivan who appeared to take on a bigger role with Philadelphia in recent friendlies.

In visiting Austin, the Seattle Sounders will hope to shake off a dreadful performance last week in a 5-1 loss at home to Portland Timbers, who finally announced it new head coach this week, Martí Cifuentes – who will take charge after his visa process is completed.

Welcome to Portland, Martí ????Martí Cifuentes has been named Head Coach of the Portland Timbers.????: https://t.co/GQt94lL1wt x @MCC14 pic.twitter.com/KbwZP3BQvn

Another big clash takes place in Los Angeles where LAFC will host Real Salt Lake in a matchup between two of the west’s best teams. Zavier Gozo and Diego Luna make up one of the most exciting American duo’s in the league.

Also of note, Inter Miami CF announced today that it has signed Brazilian international midfielder Casemiro, a five-time UEFA Champions League-winning midfielder joins the Club as a free agent after playing last season with Manchester United. He was a member of Brazil’s World Cup team this past summer.

In European games this week, 2024 U.S. Olympic central midfielder and central defender Max Dietz started for Gornik Zabrze in the first leg of a Champions League qualifier against Fenerbahce in Istanbul. Dietz played 57 minutes in a 1-0 loss and will hope his team can rebound in Poland. Dietz only joined the club a few days ago on a transfer from Greuther Furth.

Czas odkry? karty na #FENGÓR ???? pic.twitter.com/fi2RfFhGXR

In a Conference League qualifier on Wednesday, Paul Walters, Patrick Hickey, and Bohemian FC take on Balkani of Kosovo. It is the first leg of their matchup in Dublin.

Fresh after winning the Golden Boot and leading Spain to the 2026 World Cup title, Rodri has an interesting story of his past in how he spent three summers in Connecticut learning English and playing soccer.

You can watch the local television report here.

The Manchester City midfielder spent three summers in Connecticut, from 2010 to 2012, arriving to practice his soccer skills and learn English.????https://t.co/XBKXTH8i92 pic.twitter.com/v2mmc8xkKI
