THE UNITED STATES MEN’S national team is now in Arlington where they will face Haiti on Sunday to conclude group play at the 2025 Gold Cup. Mauricio Pochettino’s team is already through to the knockouts but can seal up first place with a win, draw, or even potentially a narrow loss. Such talk about results and placement is secondary. The real objective is just to play better.

The U.S. team won its first two games of the Gold Cup, which should have been expected. The performances have been up and down. The 5-0 win over Trinidad & Tobago was perfectly acceptable. The 1-0 win over Saudi Arabia was mixed. The team’s defensive effort was strong but the offense from the front three was lacking.

Of course, a little bit of perspective is needed. In past Gold Cups where the USMNT won, not every perfomance was very good (and one-goal wins have been common). It is also true that the hallmark of a good team is to find ways to win despite not playing well.

But because there are so many questions surrounding this team right now, from the coaching staff to the veteran players, to the newcomers - the scrutiny has never been higher, and the hope is that the team can turn everything around and create optimism ahead of the World Cup it will cohost.

Yes, the first two games have given mixed results but also a few clear observations – some positive, some negative.

Here are my takeaways.

In the first two games of this tournament, Chris Richards raised his level at a time when his team needed someone to step up. Mauricio Pochettino will surely notice that. It wasn’t just the goal in the 1-0 win over Saudi Arabia either, it was his defensive play in the first half where he dove and blocked a very dangerous shot.

Scorin' & Soarin' ???? pic.twitter.com/0KRzDbnNNU

One of the problems with the USMNT has had in recent years is players playing far worse for the national team than they do with their clubs. Richards has come into the summer playing like the FA Cup champion he is. The USMNT central defense pecking order has been unclear for years and it still is. But the race is on to see who will pair with Richards.

Patrick Agyemang earned his opportunity to be on this Gold Cup roster with injuries to some players and scoring goals in January and March. But things have not gone his way this month. He has had some good moments, typically with his hold-up play and ability to run in the open field - but his touch has let him down too often and that might give an opening for Brian White or Damion Downs.

Agyemang should feel pressure to be more dangerous in the coming games otherwise he might find call-ups in the fall tough to come by.

It has been a problem for the U.S. national team for several years, even before the 2022 World Cup, but this team cannot come close to its potential without Tyler Adams. Pochettino has tried with other combinations and in this camp, he left Tanner Tessmann and Aidan Morris out despite having used them in earlier camps.

Tyler Adams made his 2025 Gold Cup debut tonight, subbing on in the second half vs Saudi Arabia ????????@JennyTaft | @USMNT pic.twitter.com/8O5GCsGi3X

This month, he tried using Johnny Cardoso in place of Adams and it was a mess. Against weaker teams, the U.S. team can win without Adams. But there doesn’t appear to be a solution right now against better teams. This past month has shown that.

Matt Freese has been getting minutes this month in goal for the U.S. team and it puts him into contention to be parts of the team’s plans moving forward. While he’s always been seen as a distant option, the opportunity he has now is not something many saw coming.

The only problem is that his performance has been inconclusive. He hasn’t allowed any bad goals, but he also hasn’t made any big saves that have changed the course of games. But it is fair to say that he must be training well to be getting into these games.

At some point soon, he will be called to make a big save and show that he can contend for a spot on the team. But Freese getting these minutes is a big signal to Matt Turner that he must raise his game. Whether its from Freese, Patrick Schulte, or Zack Steffen, Turner needs to feel pressure from someone.

As expected, Alex Freeman continues to play most of the team’s minutes this month at right back despite him being in the first season as a starter. The results are as expected. He’s raw, he makes mistakes (one of which Chris Richards helped bail him out), but his upside/potential is also very visible.

His athleticism is unique. He isn’t just someone who can endlessly run up and down the field, he also is very useful in the physical side of the game. He doesn’t get pushed off the ball and he wins his share of aerials and duels.

Taking Freeman to this tournament was always a long-term play. He doesn’t have the experience to justify his place in must-win games now. But in thinking next year or even next cycle, the hope is that these games will help prepare Freeman for the future because they see him being helpful down the road.

He might turn out to be an exciting player.

Sebastian Berhalter has showcased himself well to start the Gold Cup – although he needs to improve in some areas if he wants to have a strong case to be on the World Cup team next year. For now, he is at least in consideration – which is more than anyone expected of him as recently as the start of the year.

First international assist for Sebastian Berhalter in the win vs Saudi Arabia ????@JennyTaft caught up with the USMNT midfielder after the match ???????? pic.twitter.com/xS27AuyNF9

Berhalter, 24, is very good on the ball and he passes well. He also is good free-kick taker. He plays hard and he has been showing a lot of the talent that he has displayed this year with Vancouver. Defensively and in the press, he must improve. If he does, he might make the team next year.

The playmaking between the first and second game at the Gold Cup was day and night. The team created chances with ease against Trinidad & Tobago but then were completely off against Saudi Arabia. It wasn’t until Berhalter swung in a free kick that was finished off by Richards that the U.S. team moved ahead. But even after that, the U.S. couldn’t create on the counterattack. That gap between those games (and in the two friendlies) is very wide.

It's also fair to note how the team, under a very different lineup, couldn’t create much in March at the Nation’s League. Regardless, it’s still a problem. Against Saudi Arabia, it wasn’t a case of bad finishing but rather they just struggled to create chances.

Too often, players are good in one game and then struggle the next. That will be something to follow in the games ahead as to whether some sort of consistency can be developed in creating scoring chances.On anohter note, the team will be without Haji Wright for the rest of the tournament.

TEAM NEWS: Haji Wright is dealing with an Achilles issue that will not be resolved in time for him to continue competing in the tournament.He will return to Coventry City for further evaluation and treatment. pic.twitter.com/TG6ddhEvwl
