IT HAS BEEN A BUSY slate of midweek games to breakdown and it featured American players in England, Canada, Poland, Italy, Colombia, Mexico, and the United States. But perhaps the best news is that Antonee Robinson returned to the field and was able to play a full 90 minutes for the first time since the spring.

Let’s break it all down.

The U.S. U-20 team is preparing for the U-20 World Cup in Chile and their first game will be against New Caledonia on Monday. On Friday, Marko Mitrovic and midfielder Benja Cremaschi will address the media.

But U.S. Soccer put out some clips of players giving their thoughts on the opportunity ahead. Included were Peyton Miller, Luca Bombino, Noah Cobb, and Luke Brennan.

A dream come true as we prepare for the FIFA U-20 World Cup. ???????? pic.twitter.com/8sC7waQtko

Most of this team’s core has been together for the whole cycle. Expectations will be high.

Lionel Messi had two goals and an assist in Inter Miami’s 4-0 win over NYCFC at CitiField in Queens. It proved the obvious in that Inter Miami can beat anyone in this league at anytime. But, they can also get blown out too. NYCFC came into this game playing terrific soccer but were just outclassed.

Just some takeaways:

Finish your chances: NYCFC actually played well to start this game and USMNT goalkeeper Matt Freese made some big saves. It seemed like this would be a good game. But NYCFC missed its chances and that opened the door for Inter Miami. And just like that, it was over.

Miami can get the top seed: Miami has a great schedule the rest of the way – at Toronto, home vs. Chicago, New England, Atlanta, before concluding at Nashville. They have two games in hand on leaders Philadelphia and sit in third place. If they win out, their chances are good. But this is where age creeps in.

GOOOL! Definí como quieras Leoooo ????‍???????? pic.twitter.com/q5A4QfXz5J

As for NYCFC, they need to be careful about momentum heading into the playoffs. They were playing well but this loss stings. Next, they have to play the Red Bulls in a tricky derby game. Then they have Philadelphia and Seattle to close out the regular season.

The second game in MLS on Wednesday night that the surging Vancouver Whitecaps hosted Portland Timbers and the two teams played to a 1-1 draw.

Here are the takeaways.

Brian White returned from the hamstring injury which kept him out of the USMNT September camp and scored the equalizing goal. He came into the game in the 59th minute, had three shots, and one goal. His USMNT chances seem a bit remote now that Folarin Balogun and Ricardo Pepi are back, but other players like Josh Sargent and Patrick Agyemang have not sealed the deal. Mauricio Pochettino might take three forwards on a 26-player roster.

BRIAN WHITE WITH THE SET PIECE MAGIC ????????B Dub has an immediate effect after taking the pitch for the first time since August 23 ???????? https://t.co/I6P6tOP1cp#VWFC | #VANvPOR pic.twitter.com/vJEuCP4tEl

Sebastian Berhalter was very good in this one and might be the best set-piece taker in the USMNT pool. Is that enough to keep him on the USMNT? Maybe or maybe not. Jack McGlynn is also really good and both players aren’t strong defensively. Center midfield is packed right now. But even looking beyond the World Cup or the USMNT, Berhalter might get offers from European teams soon. His Irish passport helps.

Not a great result for Vancouver: Vancouver is pushing for the top seed in the West and only drawing against Portland is a step back. If they can get Thomas Mueller back by the playoffs, they could be a tough out. Then there is the Ryan Gauld wildcard. But losing Tristan Blackmon for the rest of the season is a huge blow. They have dealt with a lot, but still remain competitive. Jesper Sorensen should be in the running for coach of the year.

As for Portland, great point that moves them closer to the playoffs. American fullback Ian Smith, 23, was very good in this game on the left side.

Antonee Robinson returned for his first start of the 2025/26 season. The USMNT left back missed the entire preseason before making one sub appearance just before the September international window. After the window, he was still missing games with an injury.

On Tuesday, Robinson went 90 minutes in a 1-0 win over Cambridge United in a Carabao Cup match. It is not a high priority matchup, but it was very useful to get Robinson back up to the speed of the game. The fact that he went 90 minutes, played hard defensively in his duels and tackles, and won a pair of tackles is a welcome sign.

Robinson is a USMNT lock starter but whether he plays for the team in October will come down to how the USMNT staff and the Fulham staff feel about where he stands physically. He’s only going to come back if he is completely ready.

Return of the Jedi. ????? pic.twitter.com/xHQrjV902G

Christian Pulisic scored again for AC Milan in a 3-0 win over Lecce in the Coppa Italia. It helped Milan that Lecce was reduced to 10 men starting in the 19th minute. But Pulisic continues to be consistently good, as he had two goals for Milan over the weekend against Udinese. The past two years he has been near automatic for Milan and the club needs to lock him up to a long extension.

Iceman Puli ?? pic.twitter.com/wtEW1RiMzg

Damion Downs is off to a slow start with Southampton and he played the last 39 minutes in a 2-1 loss to Liverpool in the Carabao Cup. He’s played in four Championship matches for Southampton and is yet to score. He has one assist that was almost accidental. But he is far from the team’s only problem as they have just one win from six games. The club spent a lot of money on Downs and eventually there will be pressure on him to produce.

Both Bryan Reynolds and Griffin Yow featured for Westerlo in its crazy 5-5 draw away to Club Brugge on Wednesday. Yow played the final 30 minutes and brought some needed energy. He was on the field for the final three Westerlo goals. Reynolds, meanwhile, played all 90 minutes. Westerlo indeed seem like a midtable team once again and it would be shocking if either American is at the club next season.

Leon Flach was just a stoppage time-wasting sub for Jagiellonia Bialystok in a 0-0 draw away to Legia Warsaw. The former Philadelphia Union defensive midfielder is no longer the automatic starter he was last season. Aziel Jackson, meanwhile, was unused for Bialystok.

Cameron Carter-Vickers and Celtic travelled to Belgrade, Serbia and played Red Star to a 1-1 draw. Unlike in Premiership games, Carter-Vickers had to play more defense and held up well. He had eight clearances in this game. Auston Trusty, meanwhile, continues to be out injured for Celtic.

In the Copa Sudamericana quarterfinal second leg, Independiente del Valle overcame a 2-0 deficit against Once Caldas from the first leg to rally for a 2-2 aggregate draw on the road – and then prevailed in penalties.

Southern California’s own Michael Hoyos, 34, scored both goals for IDV as he continues to thrive in South America continental tournaments. It’s hard to believe an MLS team never came in for him over all these years. Meanwhile, Michael Barrios, 34, went the distance for Once Caldas in the tough loss. Barrios, who only became an American citizen last month, converted his penalty in the shootout.

???????????? Two goals from Michael Hoyos helped @IDV_EC rally into the CONMEBOL #Sudamericana Semifinals! ? pic.twitter.com/ieZMDtkWRe

Alex Zendejas continues to have a great month. After scoring against Japan for the USMNT, he has been red hot for Club America. On Wednesday night, he scored the winning goal in the 89th minute to give Club America a 1-0 win on the road against Atletico San Luis. The win lifted Club America into fourth in Liga MX.

Gol de Alejandro Zendejas (Club América) ante Atlético de San Luis; narración de @J_Pietra para ESPN América Latina pic.twitter.com/nOVwPFKQOm

But Zendejas is gaining momentum at exactly the right time for him to entrench himself further into Mauricio Pochettino’s plans. There doesn’t seem to be a way he can be left off the October roster. Pochettino wants competition for spots, and Zendejas is rising above others.

Richard Ledezma assisted on the opening goal of Chivas’ 3-1 win over Necaxa. It was a good moment for Ledezma, but he was later subbed out in the 51st minute. Meanwhile, Cade Cowell entered the game in the 63rd minute for Chivas and played well.
