HAPPY WEDNESDAY to all ASN readers. As we try to do a few times a week, here is a morning update to kickoff your midweek. Lots of stuff from the transfer market, MLS, and Americans abroad.

For now, let’s start with the transfer market.

As Tom Bogert and Jonnathan Tannenwald reported on Tuesday, the Philadelphia Union are close to reacquiring Mark McKenzie from Toulouse in France’s Ligue 1. McKenzie developed with the Union and emerged into a league’s Best XI central defender before he was sold to Genk in Belgium in January 2021. In 2024, McKenzie transferred to Toulouse.

Now 27, McKenzie looks as if he will be nearing a return to Philadelphia.

The Union are close to a deal for Mark McKenzie to return to Chester. But it was not straightforward to pull off. Here’s what I know about how the Union were able to convince a player they’ve wanted to bring back for a while:https://t.co/kGAJMidmli via @phillysport

As Tannenwald notes, the Union have wanted to bring McKenzie back for awhile but now the pieces are finally coming together. McKenzie has been a regular starter for Toulouse but seemed stalled at a midtable club with little hope of qualifying for Europe, no threat of relegation, and not much interest in him in the transfer market from other clubs in Big 5 leagues.

It is unclear how this will affect McKenzie with the U.S. national team. He is likely still going to be part of the group as the player pool in central defense is not deep. Despite having been in the national team picture since 2020, McKenzie has never been a regular starter with the USMNT and his play has been uneven. Perhaps a homecoming has a positive effect on his mindset? If McKenzie wants to come home after nearly seven years abroad, there is a reason for that. Maybe playing domestically also gives him the potential to be an overage player at the Olympics?

As for the Union, this is a huge pickup that should only help the team as it picks up the pieces of a terrible start to the season and is climbing back towards playoff contention. Plus, McKenzie could serve as a mentor to young central defender Neil Pierre, who is one of the top American prospects in the youth national team system. But with McKenzie, Pierre and fullbacks Frankie Westfield and Kai Wagner, the Union now has a strong backline.

Zavier Gozo became the latest top young American player to earn a lucrative transfer with his move to Crystal Palace from Real Salt Lake finally announced.

He's Palace now.We are delighted to have completed the signing of exciting teenage attacker Zavier Gozo from Real Salt Lake ????

ASN has written about the move as it has been reportedly close for weeks. Overall, it is a great move for Gozo and this is the time for him to be taking risks with his career as no major international tournaments are approaching. With Crystal Palace investing $15 million into this move, Gozo will get plenty of opportunities to prove himself. With Real Salt Lake, Gozo has shown a very high ceiling and was ready to be the leader of his generation of American players with a move to the world’s top league.

In the first leg of the Champions League playoffs, Lyon took a big step towards qualifying for the League Phase of the tournament with a 1-1 away draw against Fenerbahce in Istanbul. The second leg will take place in France next week.

Tanner Tessmann played very well over 90 minutes, and the Alabama native played in a more advanced role than usual as he was further up the field involved more in the team’s offense. He continues to showcase his versatility as he has featured in central defense, defensive midfield, and now in a box-to-box role.

Tanner Tessmann goes 90 for Lyon in the first leg of its Champions League playoff against Fenerbahce. Good 1-1 draw for Lyon in Istanbul- TT played well and was very involved in the attack. Played in a more advance role than normal. He was part of the build-up to the goal https://t.co/zO2XiS608w

On Wednesday, Celtic will host LASK in the first leg of its matchup. Both teams currently start two American players. Celtic’s central defense tandem consists of Auston Trusty and Cameron Carter-Vickers, two players with USMNT World Cup experience. Meanwhile, LASK features left back George Bello and striker Sam Adeniran.

Adeniran enters playing extremely well with four goals and an assist in his first three Austrian Bundesliga games. The former St. Louis CITY forwards scored several goals in the spring that were critical to LASK winning both the Austrian Bundesliga and the Austrian Cup.

Over the weekend, MLS had a series of games where the top story was the first-rate performances from several American teenagers including Cavan Sullivan, Chase Adams, Ervin Torres, Justin Ellis and Adri Mehmetmi.

American teenagers in MLS this weekend (so far)Cavan Sullivan: 2 assistsAdri Mehetmi: 1 assistJustin Ellis: 1 assistChase Adams: 1 goalErvin Torres: 1 goal (see his great goal below) pic.twitter.com/Chx5KGeUAz

ASN will combine its MLS youth report and general league thoughts until after Wednesday’s games.

Here is a list of tonight’s games

The top games to follow are Philadelphia vs. Inter Miami as the Union are looking to continue their rise from the basement after four straight wins. It is a fun group as the team is led by young American players including Cavan Sullivan, Neil Pierre, and Frankie Westfield.

Cincinnati and New York City are a pair of teams that are both playing well and should make for an entertaining game.

Meanwhile, Orlando and Chicago will feature Antoinne Griezemann and Robert Lewendowski in a matchup the league is promoting heavily. Meanwhile, Justin Ellis is a young American player who is in terrific form.
