GOOD MORNING ASN READERS and a happy Wednesday to one and all. This morning we will bring you through some news to start your day including a busy slate in the English lower tiers, CONCACAF Champions Cup, a Copa Libertadores sighting, and a few other odds and ends.

We will start in England.

Watford kept its slim hopes for a promotional playoff position alive with a 1-0 win over Hull City on Tuesday. After a good performance over the weekend, 2024 Olympic left back Caleb Wiley was even better against Hull and he delivered the assist on the winning goal that was superbly finished by former French international Moussa Sissoko.

Start your day right with an alternative angle ???? pic.twitter.com/cnB5fmZuvI

There are several perspectives to look at Wiley and the first is that his success is good for young players in MLS as he helps indicate the value of homegrown American players. Second, this loan looks to be promising for his development as he is getting the chance to help in a promotional push.

Watford remains in 10th place despite the win and promotion is still unlikely. Despite that, Watford seems like a good place for Wiley next year as well given that he is likely not seen as first team player by his parent club, Chelsea. Another loan to Watford would be a good thing for him. The club seems quite happy with him.

It's time to talk about Caleb Wiley. ???????????? pic.twitter.com/2ranr6vpBk

Finally, there is the USMNT. Mauricio Pochettino’s call-up history hints that he might not be eager to draw from second divisions. But Wiley’s competition for the backup left back job among left-footed players is John Tolkin who is playing decently for Holstein Kiel, but they seem headed for relegation. Tolkin is more experienced and was viewed as a better option to start last year on the Olympic team. But Wiley is now becoming a more mature player and his athleticism might win out. It is an interesting competition.

It was an important battle between two teams with promotional hopes as Leeds United posted a big 1-0 away win over Middlesbrough on Tuesday. The win moved Leeds from the playoff positions back into first place in what is an extremely tight table.

Brenden Aaronson started for Leeds after he was limited to a sub role over the weekend in a tough draw. The former Philadelphia Union homegrown played 89 mins, created a few chances, played well, but had only 27 touches. What was good is that he brought some needed energy back to a skidding club. Still, his problem is that he doesn’t always appear to be on the same page as his teammates. But much of the criticism of him is overstated and he has positively contributed to their promotional efforts.

????‍???? Hard fought 3 points! pic.twitter.com/7U7rSa2XEC

Aidan Morris also went 89 minutes for Boro and he played well. He is often the heart of the team’s midfield and in this game he had 112 touches and was 97/100 in his passing which included 7/7 long balls. Boro outshot Leeds 17-5 but couldn't connect. Their poor shooting is why they are not in the promotional playoff positions and instead are clinging to the sixth position (hoping that Coventry lose on Wednesday).

Josh Sargent played all 90 minutes for Norwich in a 0-0 draw with Sunderland. The USMNT forward had two shots and his best was in the 23rd minute when he had an open shot but hit it right at the keeper from the edge of the box. Norwich still has a distant chance of the playoffs as they are seven points out, but it seems as if they will come up short. It would not be surprising if Norwich sell Sargent after this season.

Ethan Horvath made two saves for Cardiff City in a 2-2 draw with Preston North End and the American goalkeeper could have done better with the second PNE goal. Cardiff still sits in the relegation zone by virtue of goal differential.

Daryl Dike played the final 25 minutes for West Brom in a 2-1 loss away to Bristol City. In the 87th minute, the former Orlando City forward had a chance to equalize the game but hit a shot at the keeper. West Brom have now lost three in a row and are outside of the playoffs in eighth place.

On Wednesday, Haji Wright and Coventry will look to leapfrog Middlesbrough and Aidan Morris for the last playoff position when they host Portsmouth.

In England’s third tier League One, Leyton Orient defeated Mansfield 3-2 away. This game featured two British-born American forwards who are both red hot. Both Charlie Kelman and Dom Dwyer delivered.

Kelman, 23, was the Man of the Match with two goals. That brings him to 17 goals in League One, which has him one off the scoring lead in the league. He has 19 goals in all competitions. Next year, Kelman will either return to his parent club in Queens Park Rangers or likely sign with another Championship club. From there, he might be able to build a solid case to play for either the United States or Scotland.

Take a Closer Look as Charlie Kelman marks his 100th Orient appearance with a brace ????#LOFC #OneOrient

Meanwhile, Dwyer, 34, scored one goal for Mansfield and now has goals in three straight games and five total appearance since joining the club as a free agent. Given his struggles in the lower tiers of the United States, this is great value for Mansfield.

After settling for a 0-0 draw against Tigres in the first leg of its CONCACAF Champions Cup, the LA Galaxy seemed dead in the water for the return leg in Mexico. The defending MLS Cup champions have been very poor in 2025 after injuries and the loss of key players. IN MLS play, the team has two points from seven games.

The Galaxy managed to make a decent match out of it and ended up losing 3-2 and the Galaxy pushed hard for another goal over the last 30 minutes that would have given them an away goal victory.

The last remaining American in the UEFA Champions League is Gio Reyna, although he seems unlikely to play these days for Borussia Dortmund and appears heading for an exit this summer. They open their quarterfinal against Barcelona on Wednesday on the road in Spain for the first leg.

In the CONCACAF Champions League, Inter Miami hosts LAFC for the second leg. LAFC is struggling in MLS but managed to take the first leg 1-0 in Los Angeles. But Inter Miami wants to win this tournament badly to justify their ongoing experiment.

“This stage is already motivating,” said Miami coach Javier Mascherano. “It is the most beautiful thing about football to be in these types of games, knowing that to pass this series would be a historic step for the club, to reach the semifinals. I think it’s more than pressure, it’s an illusion.”

The comeback game. See you tomorrow at @chase_stadium ????????? pic.twitter.com/HUCxfTAdfu

Also in CONCACAF, the well-coached and overachieving Vancouver Whitecaps head to Mexico City to play Pumas after a 1-1 draw in the first leg in Canada. Vancouver appeared heading for a win in that game but conceded late to put themselves in a bad position.

In the Copa Sudamericana, Matko Miljevic and Huracan host Racing on Wednesday night. Miljevic is pushing for a summer USMNT call-up and helped his case over the weekend with a two-goal performance.

In the Copa Libertadores, Alan Sonora and Cerro Porteno visit Palmeiras on Wednesday night in Brazil.

In Germany’s 3.Liga, Mael Corboz and Arminia Bielefeld defeated Wehen Wiesbaden 4-2 to move in the promotional positions. This comes as the club made the German Cup final last week with a win over Bayer Leverkusen to become the first third tier side to ever go this far. Corboz, the team captain, assisted in the win over Wehen Wiesbaden.

In the Copa Libertadores, Boston River lost to Independiente 2-1. American winger Agustin Anello, 23, played 81 minutes for Montevideo-based Boston River and was subbed out with them trailing 1-0.
