ASN UNFORTUNATELY HAD to take a sick day on Tuesday, so we’re a little behind with a morning update with some thoughts on the news from Monday and Tuesday. Everything is now pushed off, but better late than never.

Here are some thoughts on everything.

The highly anticipated matchup in the CONCACAF Champions Cup between Columbus and Tigres saw the teams battle to a 1-1 draw in the first leg. It likely wasn’t the result Columbus needed to survive a trip to Mexico.

It’s unfortunate because Columbus was the better team for long stretches, until Aidan Morris was sent off in the 77th minute. The Crew had 16 shots in this game, including six in the box. The stats were all in their favor until Morris’ dismissal. But it was Morris who forced the turnover on the Crew's goal, scored by Diego Rossi

Hard work from @AidanZMorris ??Clinical from Rossi ????????: @FOXSoccer pic.twitter.com/5hf1VSdaHF

The big story for the Crew was that they played without Cucho Hernandez who is being suspended by Wilfried Nancy for violating “team policy.” For Hernandez to miss a game of this importance suggests it is serious.

But now it will shift to Mexico, and the Crew need a goal due to the away goals being in effect.

Meanwhile, the New England Revolution are essentially out of the tournament after a 4-0 loss at home to Club America. The team has not adjusted well to new manager Caleb Porter, and they have just one point from five games in league play. Being the early favorite for the Wooden Spoon is not the best way to head into a contest with Club America. Also in this game, USMNT winger/midfielder Alejandro Zendejas scored for America.

The Revs have a lot of soul searching to do in order to save their season.

Weston McKennie had another great performance for Juventus in a 2-0 win over Lazio in the first leg of the Coppa Italia semi-final. The series will now shift to Rome for the second leg.

McKennie picked up his 10th assist in all competitions in the 64th minute when he sprung Dusan Vlahovic on a counterattack.

He's had such a good season, when no one thought he would. He is creative in the attack, he sets up his teammates, and he is good in defense (as he was in this one, while also winning 5/6 of his ground duels).

McKennie ?? Vlahovi? = ?#JuveLazio #CoppaItaliaFrecciarossa pic.twitter.com/pVXVT8VmLn

Nottingham Forest defeated Fulham 3-1 on Tuesday in the Premier League. Fulham had a tough outing, including a very rare off night for Antonee Robinson who went the distance for the Cottagers.

Gio Reyna also saw the field again for Forest when he went the last 13 minutes (he came on when it was 3-1). Overall, it was a quiet performance for Reyna – which is fine. Right now, it’s just about him getting regular action.

Also in the Premier League, AFC Bournemouth defeated Crystal Palace. No American players played in this game but it’s important to mention two situations.

Tyler Adams was an unused substitute. This is refreshing because it shows that Bournemouth are taking their time with him during his comeback. He was only three days removed from a full 90 effort, on the heels of traveling during an international window.

Meanwhile, Chris Richards was out with a knock for Palace and is expected to miss 2-3 more weeks.

Chris Richards will be out for 2-3 weeks with the injury he picked up vs Nottingham Forest & which ruled him out of tonight's game. #CPFC

After dropping their first game of the season, PSV responded with a comfortable 2-0 away win over relegation battling Excelsior.

Malik Tillman started in place of an injury Chucky Lozano and had an assist to Johan Bakayko in the 62nd minute for a 2-0 lead. Sergino Dest also had a good full 90 effort and Ricardo Pepi played the final seven minutes.

pic.twitter.com/0XmHPA6hcg

Also in the Eredivisie, Paxten Aaronson went a full 90 for Vitesse in a 4-1 loss to Sparta Rotterdam. Aaronson was one of his team’s better players but couldn’t prevent a loss a Vitesse is almost certain to be relegated.

Benja Cremaschi is one of the better American teenagers in MLS but he has been out all of 2024 due to a sports hernia. But he is nearing his comeback and he played in his first game on Tuesday, going the final 25 minutes for Inter Miami II in a 2-0 win over Orlando City B.
