I AM SURE a lot of readers are happy out there that it is Friday. The work week is nearly complete and a full slate of weekend games are ahead. But the midweek is now over and there is plenty of news to run down before we look ahead.

We will start in North America:

The first legs of the CONCACAF Champions League Round of 16 are complete and MLS teams ended on a high note as LAFC traveled to Costa Rica and pounded Alajuelense 3-0. This was no small accomplishment as Estadio Alejandro Morera Soto is a very difficult venue for visiting teams.

But LAFC controlled this game from start to finish. After missing some golden chances in the first half, Denis Bouanga was the MOTM with a hat trick in the second half.

Right back Ryan Hollingshead was also excellent for LAFC. The California native assisted on the first two goals of the game – including this beauty.

Ryan Hollingshead is having himself a game for LAFC tonight vs Alajuelense in CONCACAF Champions League. Assisting on both LAFC goals. This one was nice pic.twitter.com/nmzTZppUsv

After the game, Steve Cherundolo spoke to the media. With a win like this, LAFC looks to be in good shape for a run in this tournament.

"The way they finished the game in the second half I was very pleased with."????? Steve Cherundolo #LAFC | #SCCL23 pic.twitter.com/cguXWMK9ol

As for the first legs in general for MLS teams, five teams participated and four of the teams had good results. Austin FC’s embarrassing 3-0 loss to Violette was cringe-worthy and Josh Wolff is no-doubt regretting the subpar lineup he sent out. Perhaps they can overcome the difference in the second leg.

But Orlando City’s 0-0 result away at Tigres and LAFC’s big win in Costa Rica over Alajuelense were the best of the bunch. Vancouver pounded Real Espana 5-0 and that should be more than enough to advance. Philadelphia started a mostly “B starting XI” but still got out of Alianza with a 0-0 draw and will return home to Philadelphia to advance.

One of the interesting notes is that on the bottom half of the bracket, Olimpia will carry a 4-1 lead over Atlas into the second leg in Mexico. If Olimpia can hold on, Mexico teams will be out of the entire bottom half. It would have three MLS teams in Vancouver, Philadelphia, and LAFC along with Olimpia to compete for a spot in the final.

Meanwhile, the top half of the bracket is brutal for Orlando. For them to make the final, it will likely take beating three straight Liga MX teams – Tigres, Pachuca, and Leon. Their best hope is that Austin rebounds and finds a way past Leon. Or that Motagua can upset Pachuca in Mexico.

The most likely scenario is that we’re looking at an MLS vs. Liga MX final – which is what CONCACAF wants.

There were three games in Europe on Thursday involving Americans abroad and all were first legs in the Europa League Round of 16

Jordan Pefok played the final 27 minutes for Union Berlin in a 3-3 draw at home with Belgium’s Union SG. He didn’t score, but Pefok had a pretty good outing. He created two chances and was active. He missed a big chance two minutes after coming on but helped Union Berlin stay on the front foot.

Henry Wingo played the final three minutes for Ferencvaros in a 2-0 loss on the road in Germany against Bayer Leverkusen.

Matt Turner made four saves in a 2-2 draw on the road against Sporting CP in Lisbon. He received some criticism with the ball on his feet and yes, he had one turnover where he was lucky to not be punished with conceding goal. But he also made some nice saves. He was rusty, but its hard to expect anything different either.
