WE’VE REACHED midday Wednesday, so it’s the middle of the week. But American soccer news is a 24/7 operation, and we have news flowing in from Europe, Mexico, and, of course, on the domestic front. From MLS, the Championship, to the CONCACAF Cup, there is a lot to break down.

So, let’s just start in Philadelphia.

To make up for a rainout from earlier in the season, the Seattle Sunders travelled to Philadelphia and came away with a 3-2 win over the Philadelphia Union. This performance shows was Seattle is capable of – even if they don’t play to this level on a regular basis. In fact, it was just the second win of the season for Seattle through 10 games.

The first half was unreal for Seattle as they took a 3-0 lead into halftime. If Seattle can play like this regularly, they should climb.

As for Philadelphia, things are off. It’s their second straight loss, both at home. There was also the CONCACAF Champions league debacle in Mexico at Pachuca where the team just collapsed. Jim Curtin is an excellent coach but it seems like this season is going to require a different approach. Players who have done so well for years under him are not at the same level. He is going to have to find solutions.

Meanwhile, one big takeaway from this game is just how well the young American players performed.

Obed Vargas: Scored the second Sounders goal but that only partially told why this was a great fame for the young Seattle d-mid. He won 6/6 of his tackles, was 13/15 in ground duels, was 2/3 in aerials, drew two fouls, committed none, had 4 clearances, was 5/6 on his dribbles. He was the best player on the field, and it wasn’t close. Coming on the road against a good team, this was one of the best outings of his career.

First @MLS goal ?Obed Vargas extends our lead in Philly! pic.twitter.com/c8gNAQJsDK

Jack McGlynn: Didn’t start, but came off the bench at halftime and scored a terrific goal. He really helped to get Philly back into the game.

McGlynn fires a shot from outside the box to get the U on the board early in the second ??Watch with #MLSSeasonPass on @appletv: https://t.co/5nrN9lFngs#DOOP | #PHIvSEA 1-3 pic.twitter.com/Yy6xMfjm4U

Quinn Sullivan: Was strong again in the midfield and assisted on Daniel Gazdag’s goal to pull the Union within one.

YOU CAN'T MAKE THIS UP!In the 57th minute, Daniel Gazdag becomes the all time leading goal scorer in Union history with 57 goals across all competitions!#DOOP | #PHIvSEA 2-3 pic.twitter.com/mdDl01tPzS

This is all very good to see.

Haji Wright added his 16th goal in 43 Championship appearances this season on Tuesday as Coventry fell at home to Ipswich 2-1 (Ipswich is now just one point from automatic promotion).

Haji's verdict on tonight. ????

Coventry has been in a tailspin lately and has just one point from their last five league games. That skid has already eliminated them from playoff contention last week.

Haji's verdict on tonight. ????

Wright continues to play well and it was a great season for him. There are people wondering if Wright will get Premier League offers, but there is room to be doubtful. He was a record purchase from Coventry last season and Coventry is heavily invested in him. Also, Coventry wants to push for promotion and losing Wright would be a catastrophic blow.

It was a bad day for all four Americans in Serie B on Wednesday, but the worst was to the duo at Venezia who were part of a catastrophic defeat against Catanzaro. Tanner Tessmann went 90 minutes while Gialuca Busio went 71 minutes.

Venezia entered the game in third place just one point behind Como for the last automatic promotion place.

Venezia had a 2-1 lead in the second half but suffered a 55th minute red card and Catanzaro equalized a minute later. Then in stoppage time, Catanzaro were awarded a penalty. The attempt was saved but VAR allowed a retake, and it was converted with the last kick of the game for a 3-2 loss.

#SerieB #IndonesiaAbroadFT : Catanzaro 3-2 Venezia? Simone Pontisso 5'? Pietro Iemmello 59', 90+6' (P) -? Jay Idzes 14', 55'???? Marin Sverko 57'Padahal bang jayadi udah cetak brace tapi timnya masih belum bisa meraih kemenangan ????? pic.twitter.com/Afjf3Em99x

To make things worse, Como had a 1-0 deficit in the 73rd minute against Cittadella but rallied for a win with the decisive goal coming at 90+4. Nicholas Gioacchini was an unused substitute for Como.

As a result, with two games left to go, Como has a four point lead on Venezia and can clinch a promotion to Serie A this weekend.

Elsewhere in Serie B on Wednesday, Kristoffer Lund went 90 minutes for Palermo in a 1-0 loss to Spezia. Lund went a full 90 in a poor outing for everyone on Palermo. They will make the promotional playoffs but are not in good form – without a win in their last five. Palermo does not look ready to compete for promotion.

Finally in Serie B, Andrija Novakovich and Lecco dropped a 1-0 decision at home to Sampdoria. Novakovich played 56 minutes and Lecco has already sealed relegation as they sit last.

Wednesday is the big game for Columbus who will visit Monterrey in the semifinal of the CONCACAF Cup, leading 2-1 after the first game.

“This is a 50-50 game,” Columbus coach Wilfried Nancy said. “We play for the final and at this level, it's all about details. This is not about how we're going to play, what we're going to do. It's details and also the mental aspect. We know what we have to do and also what they have to do."

Bottom line is that the Crew simply need to defend smart, and they need to be clinical with their chances. Monterrey
