WE’VE MADE it to Friday and the news continues to come fast. Last night we had the Copa America draw and throughout the week we’ve had stories in the lead up to MLS Cup, games with Americans Abroad, and all sorts of other stuff.

So with that, let’s just start at the top

After a bunch of boring speeches, the draw for the 2024 Copa America was held last night after the tournament’s venues were announced earlier in the week.

The USMNT was draw into Group C along with Uruguay, Panama, and Bolivia.

Here is the draw and the team’s schedule.

This was a good draw for the United States. They face a known opponent in Panama and one of the weakest teams in South America before hosting a powerful Uruguay team in what should be a pro-American crowd.

There were four seeded teams: The USA, Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico. The U.S. team received the best draw. Consider that among the two teams yet to be decided, one could be an underperforming but still talented Canadian team. Argentina could in fact face Peru, Canada, and Chile. That is a hard draw for the reigning World Cup and Copa American champs. Meanwhile, Brazil has Colombia and Paraguay along with a CONCACAF TBD.

The U.S. got the draw it wanted, and the team should be a tough out playing at home. The key is to get six points ahead of the group finale against Uruguay.

"Excitement, that's what it is. The next year is going to be a phenomenal year."@JennyTaft spoke with @USMNT Head Coach Gregg Berhalter following the 2024 Copa América draw ?? pic.twitter.com/wqGHR22sPe

Afterward, Gregg Berhalter spoke about being favored to advance.

"That's the reality," Berhalter said. "And for us it's about now going on the field and competing. We know that you can be favorites and not win the game. So, for us it's about being focused, trying to get momentum with the fans and then trying to go as far as we can in this tournament."

As for the preparations, Doug McIntyre confirmed reports last night on Fox Sports that the USMNT is set to play Brazil in a pre-Copa friendly as well as another team depending on the draw (they don’t want to play a group stage opponent).

Berhalter also spoke about juggling the two rosters with the Olympics and he said that he is looking to send the strongest team possible to the Copa America.

There were a lot of games abroad this weekend and there were some significant Americans abroad stories generated among them.

The big one was on Thursday where PSV defeated Heerenveen 2-0 behind a Guus Til goal in the 33rd minute that was assisted by Malik Tillman and a Ricardo Pepi goal that was scored in the 78th minute.

The assist from Tillman came down the left side and he was a nice cross to set up Til. Tillman ended up playing 90 minutes. As always, the question with him is whether he will convince PSV to exercise its option to buy him on the loan from Bayern. That should be his end goal as he's in a good spot.

Jetzt ist es passiert! #PSV baute die letzten Minuten ordentlich Druck auf und belohnt sich mit dem Führungstreffer durch Guus Til. #psvhee pic.twitter.com/KPVFt2HgFa

Then Pepi’s goal was just another classy finish by a player who is in great form.

#PSV belohnt sich für die inzwischen sichtbare Überlegenheit, der eingewechselte Pepi sorgt mit dem 2:0 gegen #Heerenveen für die Vorentscheidung. #psvhee pic.twitter.com/LjSsbVnAof

As for Pepi, I am expecting him to get some chances to start very soon. I think that is why he was playing with Jong earlier this week when he was given a full 90 minutes.

Other takeaways this week was that Matt Turner is looking better and better after a terrible outing for Nottingham Forest in a 5-0 loss to Fulham. Forest’s Odysseas Vlachodimos had a nightmare of a performance. To be fair, Forest’s defense was nonexistent and they wouldn’t have gotten a result with Turner. But Vlachodimos was part of the problem, not part of the solution. In another note, it was a good 75 minute shift from Antonee Robinson who is also in great form.

Ooff pic.twitter.com/Sdi8lw9t3w

Cameron Carter-Vickers only played the first half of Celtic’s 4-1 win over Hibs on Wednesday but Celtic manager Bendan Rodgers said it was just precautionary.

Brendan Rodgers on taking Cameron Carter-Vickers off at HT today: “Just a precaution. He felt his hamstring a little tight. He wanted to continue but there's no point in risking him when we've got a centre-half on the bench.”

Jonny Cardoso played what was likely his last match for Internacional in a 3-1 win over Botofogo. He came into the game in the 72nd minute to see out the win and he was given the armband. He is linked with a move to Real Betis in January.

It’s the old Matchday minus one in Columbus as the Crew prepare to host LAFC in the final and later today, Don Garber will give his annual State of the League address. Between Apple, Messi, a proposed fourth DP spot, continued expansion, a new tournament with South American teams, there is going to be a lot to talk about.

There are a lot of great storylines for this game. Here are some of my favorites:

Prediction: I think the Crew will win this 2-1. Homefield advantage has been important in these playoffs and LAFC has not dealt with forwards yet in the postseason in the manner of Hernandez and Rossi. The Crew’s difference makers are younger, and they have been playing well. Schulte will have to make some big saves for this to happen, and I think he will.
