IT HAS BEEN A very, very busy week for Americans abroad with Yanks playing in the Champions League semifinals, earning promotion into top leagues, taking steps to avoid relegation, and clinching spots in next year’s European tournaments.

With that said, let’s walk you through it.

Atletico Madrid made a nice run in the Champions League this season, but it ended on Tuesday with a 1-0 loss to Arsenal in London. With the first leg ending 1-1 last week in Spain, it was enough to see Arsenal win 2-1 on aggregate.

Johnny Cardoso started the first leg and played 88 minutes but came off the bench in the second leg in the 57th minute at a time when Atletico was trailing 1-0.

Despite never having had a defining performance with the U.S. national team, Cardoso has had a great club career in recent years and that should put him on the World Cup team. The question is how much he plays.

This past week was yet another period of time when both Folarin Balogun and Ricardo Pepi scored for their clubs. Folarin Balogun scored a 61st minute equalizer for Monaco in what would eventually turn out to be a 2-1 win over Metz. That win kept Monaco in sixth place, good enough for the Conference League – while also being within two points of the Europa League.

Balogun’s goal again came from a nice bit of combination play in the midfield. Once Balogun received the ball, he didn’t make a move directly towards the goal (as he usually does) but instead cut back for a shot from the edge of the box. His finish was an outstanding shot to the far post.

He has clearly leveled up this season and now has 13 goals in Ligue 1, five goals in Champions League, and one goal in the Coupe de France.

The question about Balogun and the U.S. national team is one of chemistry. As I said last weekend, the chemistry he has with his Monaco teammates took a long time to develop. To get similar levels of production with the U.S. team could also take time. That then leads us to the question of whether the pre-World Cup camp will be enough for Balogun to develop that chemistry with the U.S. team.

Then there is Ricardo Pepi, who scored his 14th goal of the Eredivisie season (he also has three goals in the Champions League) in a 2-2 draw with Ajax. Pepi has hit his league scoring title in just 1239 minutes. His goal was scored in a different way – a long throw-in into the box was flicked on and Pepi read it well to head it home.

Na een halve minuut komt PSV al op voorsprong via Ricardo Pepi!?#ajapsv pic.twitter.com/O05F9ERxv8

Pepi and Balogun are both having tremendous success this season but both are very different forwards. Balogun thrives on space and teammates who know how to get him the ball in spots that suit him. Pepi reads the game to get his goals. This has always been the case for him and he was a top scorer when he was at teams such as FC Dallas and Groningen, neither of whom where top teams in their respective leagues. He doesn’t need perfect service. He also is better than Balogun at scoring with his head.

It wouldn’t be surprising if Pepi has an easier time translating his top form from his club to the national team. Whether Mauricio Pochettino agrees is a different matter.

Malik Tillman has had a brutal time with Bayer Leverkusen since the end of the March international window. He hasn’t started any of Bayer’s six games during that run, and the club hasn’t necessarily missed him as they have won four of those games. Such was the case over the weekend in a 4-1 win over RB Leipzig where Tillman came into the game in the 68th minute.

I don’t necessarily think this hurts Tillman’s chances of making the team. It would be a shock to not see him on the final roster. But this might affect the quality of his performances or even the number of minutes he plays at the World Cup.

With him playing so little, we don’t know if his lack of playing time is due to poor training, poor chemistry with his teammates, others outplaying him for the same minutes, or he just doesn’t fit what manager Kasper Hjulmand wants.

Either way, none of this is good for the national team. It likely benefits those in the pool who are competing for minutes with Tillman, namely Diego Luna, Brenden Aaronson, and Gio Reyna. But this is probably something that can only be addressed by Pochettino in camp.

Then there's the issue apart from the national team and that is Tillman’s role at Bayer Leverkusen. Some might say this is an adjustment year, but that doesn’t withstand much scrutiny. Such an adjustment should have only taken a few months, not a season. Also, Hjulmand was not the manager when Tillman was hired and therefore everyone on the team had to adjust. Why is Tillman taking so long?

With Bayer Leverkusen having paid over $40 million for Tillman, there are many in the club who likely have buyer’s remorse. But if the reports are accurate that Premier League clubs might be willing to spend a lot of money to offset that fee, Bayer might be inclined to sell.

It might have taken over three months for Alex Freeman to play meaningful minutes with Villarreal, but it looks like it has been worth the wait. In making his second straight start for Villarreal, the former Orlando City defender went 90 minutes in a 5-1 pounding of Levante. That win clinched Villarreal’s return to the Champions League.

Freeman playing on the right side of three-man backline, he passed well out of the back, won his duals, and let nothing much past him.

Villarreal are heading back to the Champions League- Alex Freeman with another strong 90 minute performance- 51/54 passing, 5/6 in long balls- 2 tackles- 5/7 in ground duels- what a brilliant 12 months from Freeman with Orlando, the #USMNT, now Villarreal https://t.co/k9inc8TlVE

Freeman’s recent run of form combined with Mauricio Pochettino’s positive history with Freeman in 2025 could make him an important player at the World Cup this summer. If Pochettino wants to utilize a three-man backline, Freeman is a good option to have. The U.S. team’s biggest question marks are in the backline and Freeman is one of the few options there in good form.

Even beyond the national team, Freeman is in a great position with Villarreal who should be excited to start a full preseason with the American this summer. It is setting him up for a big breakout in 2026/27.

There are a lot of surprises in Europe this season. Thun won Switzerland, Viking won Norway, Mjallby won Sweden, Hearts is leading Scortland, and AGF is leading in Denmark.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, LASK represents yet another league leader in Europe that nobody saw coming. On Monday, LASK defeated Rapid Vienna 3-1 with American forward Sam Adeniran scoring the winning goal from the penalty spot. It was his eighth goal in the Austrian Bundesliga and 11th in all competitions this season. George Bello also went the full 90 in the win.

Sam Adeniran scores his 8th goal of the season (11 in all competitions) via a penalty as LASK defeats Rapid Vienna 3-1- LASK now has a 2 point lead atop the Austrian Bundesliga with 2 games left- LASK won the Austrian Cup on Friday w/ Adeniran scoring 2?@OtherBundesliga pic.twitter.com/NLsGRd987X

This win over Rapid Vienna came just three days after LASK defeated SCR Altach 4-2 in the final of the Austrian Cup. In the extra time victory, Adeniran scored twice and Bello scored once (the winner).

What Adeniran’s success shows is that there are still plenty of avenues for American players to succeed if MLS doesn’t work out. Adeniran had some success in St. Louis but otherwise struggled with Philadelphia and Seattle while also having stints in USL. Now he is on the verge of winning the Austrian Bundesliga.

Geoge Bello, meanwhile, was once a very promising young player in MLS but made a move to the German Bundesliga with Arminia Bielefeld in the midst of a relegation fight. The club did not survive his first year. Then in his second year, he lost his starting spot in the 2.Bundesliga as the club were relegated again. He was able to secure a move to the Austrian Bundesliga, he stuck it out, and now could be a champion.

Neither player made a move up to the Austrian Bundesliga. Instead, they made a move there hoping to salvage their careers. Now in doing so, they are key players and could be in the Champions League next year.

Gianluca Busio will return to Serie A next season with Venezia. It will be his third separate stint with the club in Italy’s top flight next year. Promotion was secured on Friday when Venezia played Spezia to a 2-2 draw, but other results in Serie B broke Venezia's way to ensure a top two finish with one game remaining.

This promotion and this season was very different for Busio than previous years. The biggest difference is that unlike other seasons, Busio was a clear leader of Venezia in 2025/26. He wore the captain’s armband and was one of the team’s best players. Nearly every single game he played well.

VeneziA. The return.#ArancioNeroVerde ????????? pic.twitter.com/XUYmDftfpd

Busio is highly unlikely to make the World Cup team this summer, but Busio is still just 23. It is also highly unlikely that he has made his last appearance for the U.S. national team. He still could have a bright future ahead of him.

Of course, a lot of that depends on continuing to raise his game. He has been unable to help keep Venezia in the top flight thus far in his career. Next year will be an important test for that. Of course, Venezia will also have to make upgrades in key areas of their squad too but Busio should, once again, be a leader for Venezia next year in Serie A.

Next season will be another excellent measuring stick to see how far Busio has come as a player.

Aiden Morris and Middlesbrough were unable to secure automatic promotion to the Premier League and ultimately finished fifth in the Championship. The club had a chance to finish second on the final matchday but were held to a 2-2 draw by Wrexham, while none of the other needed results went their way. Based on where they stood for most of the season, fifth place was a disappointment.

Now Morris and Boro will face Southampton in the first round of the promotional playoffs. Typically, the end of the season momentum is important in the playoffs and Boro is not in a good position in that regard.

Aiden Morris has played well this season and has earned the praise of each of the team’s managers this season. He was a big part of why the club was in such a great position for most of the season. But Morris will be tested more in the week ahead against Southampton.

Playing well in the promotion playoffs could put Morris into a stronger position of making Pochettino’s World Cup team. This opportunity could therefore be a blessing in disguise.

For his sake, it would be a huge career boost for Morris to be in the Premier League next season. His size and strength could see him translate well into the top flight. Many players who earn promotion to the Premier League struggle to make that adjustment, but my guess is that Morris would do surprisingly well.

Serie A is home to arguably the two top American players but it was not a particularly good weekend.

Weston McKennie started for Juventus in a disappointing 1-1 draw with Hellas Verona. McKennie was decent as Juventus controlled the pace of the game with 75% possession for the match, 29 shots, 7 on goal, and two shots off the post. But they could only manage one goal via a free kick. Juventus should have done better against an already relegated opponent but did not. When it came time for the team to be sharp, they were not.

What was very unfortunate for Juventus is all of the results were breaking their way in terms of locking up a Champions League spot. Instead, they only have a one-point cushion on fourth place.

Despite that, Juventus has a favorable schedule in the final three games with Lecce, Fiorentina, and Tornio remaining .

Christian Pulisic continued in his goal-less, assist-less streak in a 2-0 loss to Sassuolo. Milan was reduced to 10-men in the first half and Pulisic came into the game around the hour mark but there was little he could do.

Yunus Musah made a rare appearance for Atalanta and played the final five minutes in a 0-0 draw with Genoa. He is still a long way from the World Cup team. As mentioned, he is heading into the offseason with many, many questions.

AFC Bournemouth defeated Crystal Palace 3-0 and two of the most indispensable U.S. national team players met, although neither were on the field at the same time. Tyler Adams started and played 69 minutes while Chris Richards played the final 14.

For Richards, the game was an afterthought as Crystal Palace qualified for the finals of the Conference League last week and that is where their priorities are.

For Adams, he was solid and he is trending upward at important times for both club and country. Bournemouth moved into sixth place, and might end up in the Europa league spot. Adams now has a chance to help his club secure European soccer in the remaining three games.

Adams is getting into a winning mindset and Bournemouth now are unbeaten in 15 Premier League games. For the national team, it is critical to have Adams on the top of his game at the World Cup. The team is never at its best when he is not playing.

Antonee Robinson had a tough day at the office for Fulham, going 90 minutes in a 3-0 loss to leaders Arsenal. Right now, every game Robinson plays and remains healthy is a bonus.

Brenden Aaronson played the final 18 minutes for Leeds United in a 3-1 win over Burnley. All the goals were scored before Aaronson came into the game. It was disappointing for Aaronson that he did not start, but he still has had a great few months and Leeds is almost assured of survival.

Joe Scally had a solid shift at left back to help Borussia Monchengladbach upset Borussia Dortmund 1-0. Scally went 90 minutes and his recent performances have really helped his case to be part of the U.S. World Cup team as he can help the team in many ways. It might be a numbers game, but as a 25th or 26th spot, Scally adds a lot of insurance value.

Meanwhile, Gio Reyna played the final 20 minutes and was on the field (although uninvolved) in the winner. He remains a mystery as to whether he will make the World Cup team. Can Pochettino really take a player who has no goals or assists as a No. 10 this season? Also, Reyna essentially has had four years of disappointing seasons? Everyone has their own guesses.

Kristoffer Lund picked up an assist for Koln in a 2-2 draw with Union Berlin before subbing out with a knock. It remains to be seen how injured he is. Pochettino has never shown much interest in Lund, but perhaps the next manager will. He will enter his prime next cycle. His 24 starts in the Bundesliga this season makes him an experienced player at a high level.

On another note, about Lund, there are still no reports whether Koln will pick up its purchase option as part of Lund’s loan from Palermo.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Santiago Castaneda and Paderborn saw their promotion hopes take a significant hit with a 5-1 loss to Elversburg. With the loss, Castaneda and Co. fell to fourth. The goal differential hit dropped them out of the promotional playoff position. Despite that, Paderborn is just a point out of second place for automatic promotion.

Castaneda needs to finish the season strong to perhaps earn Bundesliga interest if Paderborn’s promotion effort comes up short.

The rest of the Americans in the 2.Bundesliga are all in the relegation zone: Greuther Furth with Julian Green and Max Dietz, Arminia Bielefeld with Mael Corboz and Isaiah Young, and Eintracht Braunschweig with Johan Gomez.

Rokas Pukstas is likely playing his final games with Hajduk Split as the club will need to sell him for revenue. Over the weekend he scored a lovely header for the second goal of a 3-1 win over NK Varazdin. There are three games remaining in Croatia’s HNL season and Hajduk Split will finish second.

Auston Trusty went 90 minutes for Celtic in a 2-1 away win over Hibernian, a win made easier by a 24th minute red card to Hibs. From there, Trusty was not tested much defensively. Celtic is three points behind Hearts with three games remaining. This weekend, Celtic hosts Rangers in an Old Firm derby. A loss to Rangers could essentially end the title race.
