GOOD MORNING TO ASN readers and a happy Wednesday. It was a busy day in the country on Tuesday and while most people’s mind were elsewhere, it was a huge day for Americans abroad in the Champions League and also in the Championship. In total a record nine Americans played on a single day in the Champions League and all were part of positive results.

There was also news in MLS as four series are heading into a third and decisive game this upcoming weekend.

Let’s get into it.

Both Christian Pulisic and Yunus Musah had impressive performances that helped to define their careers as both started and played big roles in leading AC Milan to a 3-1 win over Real Madrid in the Bernabeu.

In the sport’s biggest club stage, against one of the biggest teams, in one of the world’s most iconic stadiums, both players were key to an AC Milan win.

Pulisic himself was key to Milan’s first two goals The first came off a very well-delivered corner kick.

Christian Pulisic sets up Malick Thiaw’s first goal with Milan to STUN the Bernabéu ???? pic.twitter.com/UWX7miZqrx

Then in the second half, he was part of the build-up to the second goal to break a 1-1 stalemate.

Álvaro Morata ????The Spanish forward capitalizes on the rebound and punishes his former club ???? pic.twitter.com/YCESuH6pWJ

Pulisic is having a great season, and in a big game he did what great players do – he delivered tangible results. I am sure many USMNT fans would hope for more quality corner kick deliveries like we saw in this game (as that has typically been lacking when he suits up for the USMNT), but those will come. As for now, people need to just appreciate the season he is having because right now he is the player everyone hoped he would be. He has lived up to the hype, and then some.

As for Musah, this performance might have been even more important as he is still in the process of trying to prove to coaches, teammates, and fans that he belongs on the field. He had a great opportunity on Tuesday and he rewarded that trust with a good performance when he dribbled well, passed well, and defended well. Musah needs to show he can help deliver big wins for AC Milan, and he hasn’t always done that this season. He recently did not play well against Napoli. This was one of the more important performances of his career.

Overall, just a big night for Milan and a important performances from their USMNT duo.

Tim Weah and Weston McKennie came into the game in the 68th minute for Juventus away in Northern France against Lille. The score was 1-1 and that is how it ended.

The best moment for either two came in the 80th minute when Weah set up Teun Koopmeiners for a shot whose shot went over the cross bar.

It was a big day for Celtic which rallied for a huge 3-1 win over RB Leipzig in Glasgow after conceding the opening goal. Both Cameron Carter-Vickers and Auston Trusty started in central defense for Celtic which took a step towards advancing into the knockouts of the Champions League. Trusty played all 90 minutes while CCV was subbed out in the 73rd minute.

After helping Celtic to a 0-0 draw with Atalanta where he had a big performance, Trusty again turned a quality 90 minutes in the win over Leipzig. After a very tough outing last month in a 7-1 loss to Borussia Dortmund, Trusty has enjoyed a very good October and is now in very good form.

Trusty rolled his ankle in the 10th minute and made a mistake (one of many by Celtic players) on Leipzig’s opener. But overall, he was really good defensively in cutting balls out, making clearances, and always being in a good position. He was 5/5 in ground duels and was fouled twice.

Trusty will likely be called up to the USMNT for the November camp and has a better case for playing time under Pochettino.

Carter-Vickers was also useful in the game and looked close to being fully back after missing so much time with his toe injury. He seems likely to return to the USMNT soon.

Malik Tillman had a poor outing for PSV on Saturday in a 3-2 loss to Ajax but rebounded with a huge performance in a 4-0 win over Girona in the Champions League in Eindhoven. In a full 90 effort, Tillman had goal and two assists and was the best player on the field.

He scored the second goal of the game when made a nice run with the ball which he was able to finish on his own.

MALIK TILMAN TAKES IT ALL THE WAY ???????????? pic.twitter.com/aMal6F6pZg

He then added a second assist for a 3-0 win. This came in the 83rd minute, 30 minutes after Girona was reduced to 10 men following a red card.

Johan Bakayoko drives it home for PSV ????Malik Tillman adding ANOTHER assist to his tally tonight ???????????? pic.twitter.com/zlmSQte5no

Overall, these types of performance are so important for Tillman when he can showcase himself well against good teams. In the Eredivisie, PSV overmatches all but a few teams. For Tillman, it is about doing this on a regular basis when given these chances.

Tillman is yet to come close to translating his club success over to the USMNT, except for a few glimpses here and there. Part of that is confidence. We will see how he arrives into camp next week.

Ricardo Pepi came into the game in the 85th minute and was dangerous, going against a demoralized and shorthanded Girona team. He had three shots, two on target, and one in stoppage time that forced a nice save.

There was discussions pregame about whether he should leave PSV. Those questions need to be answered by frank discussions behind the scenes. Pepi should ask whether the club trusts him to be the top striker after de Jong? How much longer is Luuk de Jong planning on being there? Those answers will give the answer.

Cole Campbell, 19, played the last 13 minutes of Borussia Dortmund’s 1-0 win over Sturm Graz of Austria. The good news is that the Texas native was on the field for BVB’s late winner. The bad news is that Campbell could not get involved in the game, with only minimal touches.

Aidan Morris had a very nice game for Middlesbrough in a 4-1 win over QPR on Tuesday. This came after he struggled for Boro over the weekend after his team suffered an early red card in a loss to Coventry. But in this game, Morris was on the ball a lot and contributed a lot in possession and in helping to build attacks.

On Monday, Brenden Aaronson played all 90 minutes for Leeds United in a 1-0 loss on the road to streaking Millwall. Aaronson and Leeds are surely disappointed as they had more shots, but Millwall deserved the win.

Duane Holmes played the final 15 minutes for Preston North End in a 0-0 draw with leaders Sunderland on Wednesday.

Haji Wright was busy but wasteful for Coventry in a 2-1 loss at home to Coventry that snapped the club’s recent undefeated run that pushed it towards midtable. Wright had three shots, but couldn’t hit the target. Two were from close range, and his best chance was an 82nd minute header from point blank range.

Also of note, U.S. U-20 forward Aidan Dausch made the bench for Coventry’s first team in the loss but went unused.

I took a few days off this week and never spoke much about the MLS playoffs – I was at the Red Bulls win over Columbus in New Jersey to seal the upset. It was one of the betters games I attended this year. It reminds you of how much fun RBNY can be when the team is playing well. As for Columbus, they’ll be fine. It’s tough to stay at the top since every opponent is going to be amped for the game. After that, upsets happen.

Three series remain and here are some thoughts.

Inter Miami vs Atlanta: This would be a massive earthquake if Atlanta United wins. Atlanta is a popular team with a big fan base, but the playoffs will loose a ton of buzz if Miami make a first round exit. Honestly, I just don’t see it. Miami as too many big players in addition to Lionel Messi that are just so comfortable in knockout games. Unlike the loss in Atlanta, Miami is now outside, on grass, and in front of their own fans. I’d have a hard time wrapping my mind around an Atlanta win.

That connection ???? pic.twitter.com/91tsMJIxwm

Orlando City vs. Charlotte: The odds always favor the home team in a best of three with no aggregate. Charlotte hasn’t scored a goal yet in the first two games after prevailing only in a shootout. I don’t think Charlotte gets blanked a third time, but I think Orlando also scores more to win the series.

FC Cincinnati vs. NYCFC: This one is ripe for an NYCFC upset in Ohio. Cincinnati barely won game one and was rattled in game two – and they’ve been rattled a lot in recent weeks. NYCFC has been much better lately. The odds still favor Cincinnati, but I think NYCFC eeks this one out.

LAFC vs. Vancouver: This is another game that might see an upset because Vancouver has been playing well. Even in the game one loss, the Caps played well. Then in game two, Vancouver got the win while still playing well. Vancouver might play well in game three, but I don’t think LAFC plays poorly for a third straight game.
