WE ARE AT an interesting time of the year for the United States national team and its two top youth national teams, the Olympic team and the U-20 team. All three teams are heading into summer with major tournaments taking place and all three have rosters that have major questions.

Right now, club soccer is front and center. We are a month removed from the March international window, and we have more than a month to go before teams begin preparing for June. For players on the edge, form is key.

Gregg Berhalter will have need to have the U.S national team set by June for the Copa America. Marko Mitrovic will have a U-23 camp in June ahead of the Olympics in July. The U-20 team will also have a camp in June ahead of World Cup qualifying that overlaps with the Olympics.

But in addition to form, there are also injuries. There are obvious ones like Sergino Dest, who is done for the rest of 2024. That impact is huge, and we will talk about that because the solutions aren’t all that clear.

There are also injury situations that aren’t as clear. Take Tyler Adams, for example. He was brought into the Nations League team in March and scored a wonderful goal against Mexico. He played at least 45 minutes in each game. When he returned to Bournemouth, he played a full 90 and had another great game. But now he’s still injured with back spasms. It raises questions about what to realistically expect from him at the Copa America.

But the USMNT, the U-23 team, and the U-20 team do not all operate in a vacuum. There are a lot of players who overlap and are eligible for multiple teams. Players like Ricardo Pepi, Gaga Slonina, and Bryan Reynolds are in the mix for both teams – and which team they play for could have a rippling effect.

The USMNT and U-23 teams are closely linked and often come from the same player pool. With the tournaments fast approaching, it is important to discuss both teams together. With that said, here are projected rosters and issues for both teams.

In the mix: Zack Steffen, Patrick Schulte, Gaga Slonina, Sean Johnson, Roman Celentano

Breakdown: Turner and Horvath are locks. The discussion over the third goalkeeper is insignificant given how little the third keeper ever plays. The only point that needs to be made is that Schulte and Slonina will probably compete for a spot on the team later in the year. It doesn’t make much sense to drain the Olympic team so either could be considered for the third string USMNT keeper right now.

In the mix: Mark Mckenzie, Walker Zimmerman, Auston Trusty, John Brooks

Breakdown: It’s a position where little ever changes on the national team as it’s been the same 8-9 players in the mix for years. Richards, Ream, and Robinson all played in Nations League and should be in.

There is a question about Ream losing his starting job at Fulham, but for now, he’s in. In the fall he will likely face questions but for now, he’s part of the team. Richards is an obvious lock. Robinson has also continued to be with the team and has started games when Ream does not.

One interesting bit of competition is the fourth central defenders spot between Carter-Vickers and Mckenzie. McKenzie is actually playing better than Carter-Vickers over the past month but Carter-Vickers has been more of the incumbent.

The other issue is to consider is that the Olympic team will likely need two overage central defenders. Walker Zimmerman seems like a strong bet if he recovers from his surgery well (as is expected) given his experience and likelihood of getting released. The remaining option would be McKenzie, Carter-Vickers, or Trusty (depending on who doesn’t go to the Copa America and who is released.

Most of these players will likely all be involved with the U.S. team at some point.

In the mix: DeAndre Yedlin, DeJuan Jones, John Tolkin, Caleb Wiley

Breakdown: This is one of the biggest areas of concern for the team right now due to the injury to Dest. Dest was not just the starting right back. He was also a potential backup at left back if Robinson was not able to go. Dest was recently suspended for the Nations League semifinal against Jamaica and his replacement, Joe Scally, struggled and was pulled at halftime.

The reality is that Gregg Berhalter doesn’t have to know his top right back now. He needs to open camp with a few options. After Scally, one option is moving Tim Weah to right back where he has played at Juventus. But the two cons with moving Weah back there are 1) he has yet to play the position in a meaningful way for the USMNT and 2) it would deplete the USMNT of one of its starting wingers.

Moving Weah to the right back position could be a good fallback option if something isn’t working but having it as a main option could completely disrupt the right side of the field in two positions. Weah would need to adjust to right back for the USMNT and then another winger would have to adjust to the starting job. Having Weah stay at wing while starting another right back only changes one position.

DeAndre Yedlin has been with the team forever and is doing well for Cincinnati. But he’s north of 30 and Berhalter could be more inclined to go with options for 2026 and beyond.

That leaves us with Reynolds who has been a constant with the U.S. U-23 team in their camps this cycle and is coming off back-to-back busy (2432 minutes in 2022/23 and 2675 minutes and counting this season). He’s still green in big stages, but he probably has an upside that more resembles Dest than Scally due to his speed and athleticism.

Bringing Reynolds and Scally allows Berhalter to have two young options – both with questions but both knocking at the door. Then if something goes wrong, Weah is a good fallback.

On the left side, Antonee Robinson is an unquestionable lock. Kristoffer Lund has been the backup since last September although Scally can shift to the left side if necessary.

In the Mix: Luca de la Torre, Lennard Maloney, Tanner Tessmann, Gianluca Busio, Aidan Morris

Breakdown: These positions are more competitive as Johnny Cardoso is playing his way up, Gio Reyna showed well at the Nations League, and Malik Tillman is ending his season with productive numbers at PSV.

This leads to tough decisions. Tyler Adams has been missing time after he came back in the Nations League and then went a full 90 for Bournemouth. It raises questions over his Copa availability. It sounds like he will be back in time but it’s worth monitoring. Yunus Musah hasn’t had the most productive season for Milan, but he still brings a dribbling edge.

This creates an interesting competition. Between Adams, Musah, Brendan Aaronson (who is listed as a forward but could just as well be in the midfield), and Luca de la Torre, someone will probably be left out. With Aaronson having played better since he was initially dropped from the Nations League, it could be de la Torre. If Adams can't go, and that might be the case, de la Torre comes back in.

In the mix: Ricardo Pepi, Alejandro Zendejas, Cade Cowell, Kevin Paredes, Brandon Vazquez, Jesus Ferreira, Paxten Aaronson, Jordan Pefok

Breakdown: The wing position is a little thin right now after Pulisic and Weah. But Wright, Aaronson, Tillman, and Reyna can cover the wings.

Center forward becomes tough. While Wright has played as a winger at Coventry at times (where he typically cuts in centrally), he’s a No. 9 with the U.S. team. Therefore, is it possible to see a scenario where Sargent, Wright, Balogun, and Pepi all make it? If there were 26 players on the roster, sure. But it seems to do that, Berhalter will have to cut some essentials.

The best scenario for the USMNT would then be to have Pepi play with the Olympic team – where he is age eligible. That would keep him involved and it would give him an important role at a major tournament. Right now, if he makes the team, he’s not likely a starter.

But there would be pressure on Folarin Balogun in this tournament. He’s wrapping up a season where he is not close to putting up the numbers he had in Ligue 1 the year before. Now with Breel Embolo returning from his ACL injury, he will have to compete for minutes).

In the mix: Chris Brady, John Pulskamp

Breakdown: Based on recent selections, Schulte and Slonina seem like Mitrovic’s top two. Chris Brady is doing well and that would be a tough cut. Between Schulte and Slonina, it’s not clear who is the starter.

In the Mix: Maximillian Dietz, Jonathan Tomkinson, Jalen Neal, James Sands, Justen Glad, Auston Trusty

Breakdown: Among age eligible options, central defense is the weakest area of the pool. There are very few regular first-team starters. As a result, there is a good chance that two of the three overage spots will be used on central defenders. If Walker Zimmerman returns from his recent surgery soon, as expected, he remains a likely option considering his experience (World Cup, USMNT captain’s armband at times) and the very high chance he is released.

Mark McKenzie should be an option, but getting his release could be challenging given that he is likely to move on from Genk this summer and it isn’t clear what club he will be at. After him, other options like James Sands, Auston Trusty, Justen Glad, and/or Carter-Vickers (if he’s not at the Copa America).

Mitrovic will take at least one age-eligible option. Among those playing, George Campbell and Maximillian Dietz are in the best form. Campbell has done well and is likely to get released. There is a chance Jalen Neal could push as he is near a return.

In the mix: Caleb Wiley, Bryan Reynolds, Joe Scally, Jonathan Gomez, George Bello, Cam Harper

Breakdown: The Sergino Dest injury could have rippling effects into the Olympic team. One option that we predict is that Bryan Reynolds moves to the USMNT. That would then create a need for a starting Olympic right back. With that being a thin position for the U-23 team, DeAndre Yedlin makes reenter the equation as an overage pick. With two World Cups and 110 Premier League appearances under his belt, he could be a good leader. Plus he’s playing well for Cincinnati. The right back pool among age-eligible options isn’t long.

At left back, it is a tough call between John Tolkin and Caleb Wiley. Both players are off to nice starts in 2024 but Tolkin probably has been the top choice for most of this cycle. But that could change in the weeks or months ahead.

The toughest thing with putting together the Olympic roster is that it is just 18 players and there can’t be a set backup at every position. There are starters, and then there reserves who need to backup several different positions.

This helps with a player like Nathan Harriel who has played well with the U-23 team and can be a backup across the backline.

In the Mix: Rokas Pukstas, Benja Cremaschi, Cole Bassett, Josh Atencio, Daniel Edelman, Quinn Sullivan, Obed Vargas

Breakdown: This is a tough position to break into and based on the team’s camps this cycle, it seems like Mitrovic likes this group of four players – for good reason. Aidan Morris has been so good for the Crew, helping them to be one of the top teams in MLS. Tanner Tessmann and Gianluca Busio are leading Venezia in a promotion race. Jack McGlynn has taken noticeable steps with Philadelphia.

That leads to some tough decisions. Rokas Pukstas has had a good season but his participation is clouded by the fact he hasn’t been with the team yet this cycle and that makes it harder to break in. Also, he looks set for a move this summer and a release becomes an issue.

Benja Creamaschi is also a top American prospect but he’s very young. It seems like he is still better to stick with the U-20 team and then be one of the top age-eligible Olympians in 2028 when it will be in Los Angeles. The same with Obed Vargas.

In the Mix: Cade Cowell, Brian Gutierrez, Diego Luna, Johan Gomez, Brandon Vazquez, Esmir Bajraktarevic, Kahveh Zahiroleslam, Bernard Kamungo

Breakdown: This is the deepest area of the team – especially when you consider age-eligible players on the full USMNT. The biggest discussion point is Pepi, who is a top American forward who has been playing with the USMNT since the World Cup. There is a logjam of forwards at the moment and Pepi is trending more favorably than Balogun, but he still doesn’t play terribly much. If he’s on the Copa America team, he’s likely behind Sargent, and likely Balogun and Wright as well. This allows him to play.

Meanwhile, Duncan McGuire continues to impress for Orlando and will also likely be heading to Europe this summer after his botched transfer to Blackburn in January (and he can do better than Blackburn too).

Paxten Aaronson and Kevin Paredes speak for themselves as young and borderline USMNT players. Griffin Yow has simply forced his way onto the team with an exceptional year and a standout U-23 camp in March. It was a high bar for him to make and he easily cleared it.

That leaves one spot left. For now, I have Taylor Booth back into the equation, but it is a tough call. Diego Luna can make great individual players that could be needed off the bench. Cade Cowell is very athletic and physical. It would be nice to see him in Paris as well.

Esmir Bajraktarevic is one of the better teenage America players but he probably belongs with the U-20 team at this point.
