THE WEEKEND ABROAD was generally positive although the potential very serious injury to Swansea City and U.S. national team winger Jordan Morris overshadowed some of the best news that included great outings from Duane Holmes, Chris Richards, DeAndre Yedlin, and Brenden Aaronson.

Jordan Morris was subbed into Swansea’s game on Saturday against Huddersfield but left shortly after due to what looked like a serious injury. Morris landed awkwardly and was stretchered off the field. He left the stadium on crutches and a leg brace and a scan is expected on Sunday.

The injury to Morris comes at a terrible time for many parties. First for Morris, he was making a big transition in his career that might have resulted in heading to the Premier League with Swansea if the team earned promotion and a buyout with Seattle could be arranged. It’s bad news for Seattle who either need Morris on the field or need to cash out with him. It’s bad for Swansea City which loses a weapon in its promotional effort.

Finally, if Morris’ injury is serious, it is bad news for the U.S. national team. Morris is a controversial figure among some contingent of the fan base who think he’s easily replaceable. But Morris is a starter for the team and, unlike many others who are in contention, has played regularly. In a year with many tournaments taking place and World Cup qualifying set to get underway, losing a dependable player like Morris would be a huge blow.

Johnny Cardoso and Internacional dropped a very difficult 2-1 decision to Flamengo on Sunday. This was the second to last round of the season in Brazil’s Serie A and if Internacional had won, it would have clinched the title.With the loss, however, Flamengo leap-frogged Internacional into the league lead. For Internacional to win the title, it will need to defeat Corinthians in the final round next Sunday while needed Flamengo to draw or lose to Sao Paolo. It’s possible but still really tough and this loss stung. Cardoso played the final eight minutes plus stoppage time and Internacional was reduced to 10 players in the 48th minute.

Christian Pulisic missed out on Chelsea’s disappointing 1-1 draw with Southampton on Saturday. The Hershey native picked up calf injury and Thomas Tuchel revealed he would miss the game on Friday.

In Ligue 1, Tim Weah played the final 25 minutes for league leaders Lille in a big 4-1 away win over Lorient. Weah continues to be a consistent player off the bench for Lille as it looked to be crowned champs of France. It is a talented team but Weah’s mintues have been increasing. He still needs to work on seeing more of the ball. In this game, he had just four touches and 3/3 passing, four touches, lost both of his duel and lost both of his aerials

Weah continues to be dangerous and does well with few touches and in this one he had a few moments of being dangerous. But from a U.S. national team position, he might be best on the wing if he is not one who will get on the ball much.

It was also puzzling to see Matt Miazga on the bench for Anderlecht when it hosted Kortrijk on Sunday. Normally a regular starter, Anderlecht had only conceded two goals from its last six league games in Belgium. Miazga did not play in the 2-0 loss and Anderlecht is a completely mess and is now winless in its last five games against the bottom six of the table.

American manager Pellegrino Matarazzo has done a great job the 14 months he has been in charge of VfB Stuttgart. During that time he has guided the team to promotion to promotion in the Bundesliga and helped it into midtable in its first season back in the top flight. On Friday, it was announced the New Jersey native signed a new deal to remain with the club through 2024. On Saturday, he guided his team to a 1-0 win over FC Koln and Stuttgart remained in 10th place.

?? Der #VfB hat den ursprünglich bis zum 30. Juni 2022 datierten Vertrag mit Cheftrainer Pellegrino #Matarazzo vorzeitig verlängert. Der neue Kontrakt gilt bis zum 30. Juni 2024. Mehr dazu auf https://t.co/BsTppMGcO5: https://t.co/5SWQjZgpNO pic.twitter.com/Kl1D3AV8Tx

In Poland, Aron Johannsson got off to a strong start at Lech Poznan in the top flight Ekstraklasa. On Sunday, the 2014 U.S. World Cup veteran got the start to make his club and league debut against Slask Wroclaw. In the 57th minute he scored the game’s only goal to deliver his team a win.

Aron Johannsson’s first goal for Lech Poznan - in his club and league debut pic.twitter.com/qk7BdPZ1si

In League One, Sunderland is pushing for promotion and Lynden Gooch has remained loyal to the club during relegations and now an attempted revival. On Saturday, he scored a banger in a 2-0 win over Burton Albion. Whenever Gooch scores, it’s always a goalazo. With the win, Sunderland remained in sixth place – which is the last promotional playoff position.

Gooch! pic.twitter.com/p3Dm70hVfQ

Bryan Reynolds signed an impressive transfer from FC Dallas to AS Roma in January but it is unclear when he will feature for the Italian club. The club revealed the Texan was back in the United States due to “bureaucratic problems.”

“bureaucratic problems” #Reynolds https://t.co/vwdXctHfdL

Also of note, Bobby Wood scored his first goal since 2018 when he subbed into Hamburg’s game against the Wurzburg Kickers in the 80th minute down 3-1. Wood scored in the 89th but HSV dropped a 3-2 decision. HSV still sits atop the 2.Bundesliga table but Wood is likely heading to Real Salt Lake this summer. But this was a feel-good story for Wood who has fallen on tough times in recent years.

This weekend had a lot of “blast from the past” type names resurface with goals – Wood, Johannsson, Gooch, and Holmes being the key ones. But 2015 U.S. U-17 forward Joe Gallardo scored off a very solid strike for Queretaro in Liga MX in a 1-1 draw with Pumas. Gallardo was recently with the Real Monarchs and Richmond Kickers USL.

In Liga MX, former Richmond Kickers and U.S U-17 veteran Joe Gallardo, 23, with a big goal for Querétaro against Puebla pic.twitter.com/vg9K4osBOK

Here is my look at the top games

Coming into the weekend, few would have expected Huddersfield Town’s Duane Holmes to have the best outing of all American players in Europe. But that is what happened as Holmes dominated Swansea City en route to a shocking 4-1 win over the promotional contenders.

With the game knotted at 1-1 at halftime. Jordan Morris came into the game for Swansea City but the Welsh team could not defensively stop Holmes who was easily the best player on the field for this one

After Huddersfield took a 2-1 lead in the 48th minute, Holmes scored in the 52nd minute and 55th minutes to lift Huddersfield into a 4-1 lead.

Of course, his raw numbers only tell part of the story. The quality of his goals, particularly his second goal, were extremely impressive.

The second might have been the best in all of England this weeknd.

This goal from Duane Holmes is out of this world. What a strike from the American midfielder!! pic.twitter.com/FCke9m1Drx

His first was a result of hard work.

Holmes makes it 3-1 #HUDSWA pic.twitter.com/CRRDsc4FRP

For Holmes, there is a lot to take in from this performance. He’s always had talent, but it comes down to a matter of confidence for him and his last good run came in December 2019 and into January 2020. Since then, he has been injured while also struggled at Derby County after Frank Lampard left.

Unhappy at Derby, Holmes was able to get a transfer to Huddersfield Town – his hometown club where he developed from the U-9 team and progressed all the way into the first team when he was 18. The move home was an issue of getting Holmes more comfortable and this performance should give him a lot of confidence to play at the level he is capable of playing. That is good news for Holmes.

The national team is within reach of Holmes again and he had no strong case for a call-up since late 2019. It will take more than one game, however, as the midfield pool is now far more crowded than it was in 2019. Holmes needed a spark, however, and he got it. Now he has to use this to ignite his game and play with consistency.

As for Jordan Morris, as mentioned above, we are awaiting scans to determine the severity of his injures. All the U.S. national team and its fans can do is hope its not serious.

It was the biggest game of the Austrian Bundesliga season when league leaders Red Bull Salzburg hosted second place Rapid Vienna on Sunday. Heading into this game, Salzburg had a three-point edge along with an insurmountable advantage in the first tiebreaker of goal differential.

Brenden Aaronson was scheduled to begin this game on the bench but got moved into the starting lineup minutes before kickoff due to an injury to Noah Okafor.

Aaronson enjoyed his best performance so far in the Austrian Bundesliga and was dangerous throughout in a huge 4-2 win for Salzburg that propelled it six points atop the table while also having a huge edge in the first tiebreaker.

The former Philadelphia Union playmaker had his hand directly involved in the first and third goals for Salzburg and on both of these goals the combination was the same: Aaronson to Mergim Berisha to Patson Daka for the goal. Daka finished with a hat trick and is likely going to be the club’s next big-time sale.

Here was Brenden Aaronson’s “hockey assist” on Salzburg opening goal vs Rapid Vienna #USMNT pic.twitter.com/WwuYf6WIYy

The second was even more impressive as Aaronson was in the open field.

Here is Brenden Aaronson hitting another big pass in the build-up to Salzburg’s 3rd goal for a 3-0 lead on Rapid and to complete Daka’s hat trick #USMNT pic.twitter.com/6tH3xc5oEY

Overall, Aaronson played even better than his numbers suggest. The passing numbers were down because Aaronson was trying with most passes to create scoring opportunities. This is favored in the Red Bull system as it gives the team a chance to force a turnover and win the ball back in a dangerous position. That was on display on Sunday.

Brenden Aaronson: raw # for Salzburg in 4-2 win vs. Rapid Vienna90 mins66 touches1 shot4 key passes26/40 passing2/6 long balls6/11 duels won1 dribble (1 attempt)3x fouled1/1 aerials 2 interceptions1 foul- he was better than even these solid # indicate #USMNT

Overall, it was a great outing for Aaronson and one that seem to suggest he is close to or fully adjusted to Red Bull Salzburg and playing under Jesse Marsch. He seems likely to be a regular starter the rest of the season.

With this win, Salzburg increased its chances of winning another Austrian Bundesliga title immensely and Aaronson is likely chasing another bit of silverware after winning the Supporters Shield last year with Philadelphia.

Two of the top 2000-born American players faced each other in the Bundesliga on Sunday and this game was no contest almost from the opening kickoff as Chris Richards and Hoffenheim rolled over Werder Bremen 4-0 at home.

Chris Richards was outstanding in central defense for Hoffenheim as his passing out of the back was effective and defensively, he was a rock. He has looked solid in each of his outings so far since joining Hoffenheim on loan but this was his best. He played at the level of an above average Bundesliga centerback. Like any young player, he will have rocky times at some point but his floor seems high.

Chris Richards: raw # for Hoffenheim in 4-0 win vs Werder Bremen90 mins1 shot63 touches46/56 passing7/14 long balls4/6 duels won2/4 aerials1 clearance0 fouls1x fouled0 tackles 2 interceptions#USMNT

As for Josh Sargent, the American forward worked hard and ran a lot but was not effective at all. He had the least touches among any starter in this game and was held without a shot. He won a majority of his duels and aerials but got lost in the mix of what is a very bad offensive team in Werder Bremen. It’s been a tough season for Sargent but at least he’s been an automatic starter. It will be interesting to see what happens with him or the Werder this summer.

If Wolfsburg is going to qualify for the Champions League, it needs to easily dispatch the teams at the bottom of the Bundesliga table. On Friday it did just that with a convincing 3-0 win over an Arminia Bielefeld team that sits in the relegation playoff position.

John Brooks started for Wolfsburg and was once again a steady presence in the back. His long-range passing wasn’t as great as it typically has been this season but he was involved and his duel winning and aerial winning was top notch.

Wolfsburg did not need Brooks to win this game as it was a mismatch. Wolfsburg held big advantages in all key statistics including shots, chances created, and possession. But Brooks and Wolfsburg’s defense has been strong all season and has conceded only 19 goals in 22 games.

With the win, Wolfsburg moved into third place in the Bundesliga and are sitting in outstanding position.

Last weekend’s draw against Porto was impressive for Boavista, even if it blew a 2-0 lead to settle for a 2-2 draw. U.S. national team right back Reggie Cannon had his best game since arriving in Portugal from FC Dallas in that one.

But if Boavista is going to survive this season and avoid relegation, the team needs wins and needs to show it can beat midtable teams with occasional regularity.

On Friday, it was mission accomplished with an impressive 1-0 win over a Moreirense team that came into the game in seventh place. While Cannon was not as impressive as he was against Porto, he was still solid despite only going 63 minutes. His offense wasn’t particularly strong, but defensively he won a lot of battles, covered a lot of ground, and most importantly – did not make any major mistakes. It was a quiet but competent outing for the Texan.

Reggie Cannon: raw # for Boavista in 1-0 win vs. Moreirense63 minutes47 touches0 shots0 key passes22/25 passing1/1 long balls5 duels won (1 lost)0 dribbles 3x fouled0 tackles1 aerial won (1 lost)2 interceptions- big win for Boavista- Touch map (attacking ????) #USMNT pic.twitter.com/JFk8lvwS4b

Most importantly, with the win Boavista moved out of the relegation zone and quietly is improving. It isn’t clear why Cannon got the early hook as he was playing well but it did work out as Boavista earned three points.

Cannon’s replacement after being subbed out was Cristian Devenish, who is normally a central defender so it appears as if the club was shifting tactically or just going with a more defensive presence in the back to see out the win.

DeAndre Yedlin had a huge outing in the Super Lig on Saturday helping to guide Galatasaray to a 1-0 win over Alanyaspor.

In Turkey, pressure is always high due to fanatical fans and eccentric owners. Galatasaray is one of the country’s most powerful clubs and is even on points with Benfica for the top of the table – while having the edge in goal differential.

Every game is important right now for Galatasaray as we get ready to head into March and American right back DeAndre Yedlin put in a massive effort in the win. It was one of his best performances in years. The raw numbers only tell part of the story (how he was great with his duels and aerials).

He completed his only long ball of the game but boy was it a spectacular effort. It was an elite level pass that set up Emre Kilinc’s 18th minute. It wasn’t quite an assist because Kilinc’s initial shot was saved and he put in the rebound but Yedlin is the biggest reason why Galatasaray scored this goal.

Yedlin! What a pass! pic.twitter.com/x3N6b6IF2F

With a performances like this, Yedlin has likely earned the trust to be the starting right back the remainder of the season and the Seattle native will now chase silverware that was never possible to him in England – or even Seattle.

This has certainly turned into a golden move for Yedlin who is in far better shape to make the national team in a crowded right back field. After Sergino Dest, Yedlin’s resume could surpass Reggie Cannon’s very soon, if he hasn’t yet.

Over in Austria, Taylor Booth, 19, is making the most of his loan to SKN St. Polten from Bayern Munich. Since joining the club less than two weeks ago, Booth has made two appearances and delivered critical assists in each game. That is even more impressive given that these two games where his first two games at any first-team professional level.

Last week, Booth went the distance and delivered an 83rd minute assist that gave St. Polten an crucial equalizer in a 1-1 draw with Ried. On Saturday, he was on the bench against WSG Swarovski Tirol but came off the bench to start the second half with the game scoreless.

In the 72nd minute, Booth’s free kick found Kofi Schulz for the game’s only goal.

Taylor Booth assist for SKN St. Pölten (2/20/21) pic.twitter.com/oCKDiDsbRw

His numbers show he was involved.

Booth is still rusty from the fact he didn’t play much this season prior to his arrival at St. Polten. But he is rising to the moment in each game to deliver decisive plays. So far, it’s been a strong start to first-team soccer for Booth given how long it took him to get to this point.

Last weekend, Antonee Robinson was on the bench for Fulham and missed out on his team’s big 2-0 win over Everton. Missing out on that meant that the U.S. national team left back would have to fight for his spot back. Midweek, he came off the bench in a 1-1 draw against Burnley.

With schedule congesting leading to many games in a short span, Robinson was always going to get more chances with Fulham but he had to take advantage whenever those chances came to remain on the field.

On Saturday, Robinson got the start against Sheffield Untied in a matchup between two teams in the relegation zone. For Robinson, he wasn’t spectacular but he was good enough to help Fulham pick up a very important 1-0 win. On the defensive side of the game in particular Robinson was very sharp.

With the win, Fulham is now only three points deep in the relegation battle and the club’s seven points from three games the past week now gives it very realistic hope for survival.

Meanwhile, Robinson put to rest any worries he lost his starting spot on the team. This performance was strong enough to keep him as the starter and he continues to have a very strong first season in the Premier League.

It was the battle of two American defenders in the Championship on Saturday when Queens Park Rangers hosted AFC Bournemouth. Team captain and 2014 U.S. World Cup veteran Geoff Cameron started for QPR while Cameron Carter-Vickers, 23, got the start for Bournemouth. U.S. U-20 forward Charlie Kelman was on the bench for QPR (but went as an unused sub).

This was a much bigger game for AFC Bournemouth which is in sixth place and trying to hold onto a spot in the promotional playoff spots. In the end, however, QPR came away with a 2-1 upset win.

Both American defenders played well. Carter-Vickers completed 54/57 of his passes and had 64 touches. He won 5/7 of his duels and 3/5 of his aerials. Meanwhile, Cameron completed 41/52 of his passes including 3/9 of his long balls and one key pass. He won 5/10 of his duels and 4/5 of his aerials.

It was very much a physical Championship game but one that could end up being costly to Bournemouth in its push for a playoff spot.

One of Germany’s best rivalries, the Revierderby, between Borussia Dortmund and Schalke isn’t what it used to be. And with Schalke sinking into almost certain relegation, it is anyone’s guess when the next edition will be after this one on Saturday.

Three years ago, the Revierderby featured Weston McKennie and Christian Pulisic with two teams in the Champions League spots. In this edition, slumping Gio Reyna was on the bench for Dortmund while Matthew Hoppe started for a Schalke team that lacked talent to get the American striker the ball frequently.

For Hoppe, he left in the 66th minute with Schalke down 3-0. His numbers reflect the challenges he face in getting on the ball.

The goals are harder to come by for Hoppe after that memorable 5 goal/3 game run in January. Defenses are focused on him and his typically smart runs because Schalke doesn’t have many other scoring options.

Despite not scoring, Hoppe is improving. He already can make smart runs but now he is being forced to work on his hold up play, making cleaner touches, creating chances with his passing.

As for Reyna, he has been dropped from the starting lineup and the team has turned in impressive results in wins over Sevilla in the Champions League and the now Schalke. He played the final 10 minutes in this one having eight touches and was 4/6 in passing. It was an uneventful outing.

He’s young and the chances are that he will eventually return to his normal high level. But these are learning lessons in terms of improving as a player. It’s not always a smooth ride.

Daryl Dike, 20, earned the start for Barnsley and the club scored a big 1-0 away win over Bristol City on Saturday. The Oklahoma native played 82 minutes and was on the field for Carleton Morris’ 67th minute goal although he was not involved.

It is interesting to see how Dike is evolving as a player during this loan to the Championship and he is certainly very eager to get involved with the physical side of the game. That is not an easy task in the Championship where defenders are used to this type of play. Dike has been more than holding his own.

In this game, Dike played 82 minutes and was involved in 25 duels where he won just eight – although most duels he had a less than 50% chance of winning. With aerials, he won seven of 20 chances.

The way Dike plays the game, it will take him longer to mature and develop as a player. Using his size and strength is a different skillset and he is playing in perhaps the most physical league in the world. But the effort it is taking opponents to contain him is noticeable and the club has been doing well with Dike on the field.

Barnsley and likely English scouts that are now watching him have noticed this. It wouldn’t be surprising if offers roll into Orlando heading into the summer. Dike might be a project, but he likely has shown himself to be a project well worth taking on due to his upside.

With the win, the club remained in 10th place but is in a better position as it is just three points behind sixth place Bournemouth.

After a rough midweek outing in a loss to Paris St. Germain in the Champions League, Sergino Dest returned to the starting lineup for Barcelona against a Cadiz team in the bottom-half of the table. Dest played 80 minutes and left with Barcelona up 1-0 and was not on the field for the Cadiz equalizer in a disappointing 1-1 draw.

In the first half, Dest was actually heavily involved in the attack and, unlike recent games, a heavy majority of his touches came in the attacking half. You can see this below in the touch map. His 98 touches over 80 minutes show that he was aggressive in this one. Defensively, he made no noticeable mistakes.

Sergino Dest: raw # for Barcelona in 1-1 draw vs. Cadiz80 minutes98 touches0 shots4 key passes65/73 passing3/8 duels won1 clearance1 dribble (4 attempts)1x fouled1/1 aerials won- touch map, attacking ???? pic.twitter.com/v3zZP3gwO1

As for Barcelona, it is a weird transitional time. Expectations are always high but the club is in the process of ushering in a new generation of players, which includes Dest. It’s manager, Ronald Koeman, is not popular and is rigid with his tactics. If there is a managerial change, it could be a big boost for Dest who would play better in a more open style.

We didn’t think there was going to be a Bundesliga title race but two straight losses from Bayern and consistent wins from Leipzig have closed the gap. With Leipzig’s 3-0 win over Hertha BSC on Sunday combined with Bayern’s loss to Eintracht, the gap is now just two points and Leipzig is now within striking distance.

In this game, Adams started out on the right side but shifted to the middle in the second after a wave of tactical subs. That paid off and Adams was at his best in the 70th minute when he won possession and assisted on Nordi Mukiele’s goal all in one movement. It’s his ability to play defense and force turnovers in dangerous areas that has been an asset to each of his teams.

The fine outstanding play from Tyler Adams to win possession and assist on Mukiele’s goal for Leipzig - which downs Hertha 3-0 pic.twitter.com/aCSTV5Oaxo

Over 90 minutes, Adams put up good numbers and was heavily involved in another good win – but even more impressively is that his best moments came when he moved centrally. Perhaps that opens the door for more minutes in his preferred position.

Tyler Adams: raw # for Leipzig in 3-0 win vs Hertha90 minutes60 touches0 shots1 key pass1 assist34/42 passing (81%)3/7 duels won1 clearance0 dribbles1x fouled0 fouls2 tackles (2 attempts)0/1 aerials won1 interception- touch map, attacking ??#USMNT pic.twitter.com/GLEZZeVhaD

It has been and odd start for Mark McKenzie at his new club, Genk, in Belgium. McKenzie has generally played well and has rarely been at fault for a goal. But Genk has conceded a lot of tough goals with McKenzie on the field and dropped tough results.

Such was the case on Sunday when Genk lost what should have been a winnable game to Beershcot. In the 2-1 defeat, Beerschot scored two goals and the first was an incredible goal from right back Jan Van den Bergh from way outside the box. The second was off a penalty that was called for a Genk handball. McKenzie was not involved either of the goals.

McKenzie was pretty solid in this one and has generally impressed coaches and those around the club since his arrival. In this one, he completed 53/59 of his passes and was 4/7 with his long balls and split lines with these passes on multiple occasions. Despite the loss, Genk remained in third place with the loss.

For McKenzie, this season is all about adjustment to his new team and the new league. So far that has gone smoothly and it is hard not to be optimistic over his future. He’s overtaken other defenders for a starting job.

In the Premier League, backup goalkeeper Zack Steffen did not get off the bench for Manchester City in a 1-0 win over Arsenal in London on Saturday. On Friday, Owen Otasowie went as an unused substitute for Wolves in a 1-0 win over Leeds United.

In the Championship, Matthew Olosunde played the second half for Rotherham United in a 1-0 loss to leaders Norwich City.

In Italy’s Serie B, Andrija Novakovich and Frosinone played to a disappointing 0-0 draw with second-to-last Pescara on Friday. Frosinone had 60% possession but could get nothing done with it. Novakovich fplayed 64 minutes and had only 18 touches, no shots, and was 7/9 in passing. He won just 2/10 of his duels. Also in Serie B, Giuseppe Barone still awaits his first-team debut and was an unused sub for Salernitana in a 2-0 away win over Ascoli on Saturday.

In Argentina’s Copa Diego Maradonna, 2015 U.S. U-20 World Cup midfielder Joel Sonora started for Talleres de Cordoba on Friday in a 3-0 loss to Gimnasia. Sonora was subbed out in the 79th minute with his team down 2-0. Also in Argentina, Joel’s brother Alan Sonora did not get off the bench for Independiente in a 1-0 win over Patronato de Parana.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Alfredo Morales started and played 72 minutes for Fortuna Dusseldorf in a 3-2 win over Hannover. American winger McKinzie Gaines did not get off the bench for Hannover.

In Germany's 3.Liga, Terrence Boyd started and went the distance for Hallescher in a 2-1 away loss to Meppen on Friday.

In Belgium’s top flight, Joe Efford started and played 71 minutes for last-place Waasland-Beveren in a 0-0 draw against Sporting Charleroi on Saturday. Chris Durkin played the entire game for St. Truiden in defensive midfielder in an impressive 0-0 draw on the road against third place Royal Antwerp FC.

In Turkey’s Super Lig, Mix Diskerud started and played 65 minutes for Denizlispor in a 1-0 win over Genclerbirligi. Tyler Boyd played the final 15 minutes for Sivasspor in a 2-0 win over Kayserispor

Mix Diskerud: raw # for Denizlispor in a 1-0 win vs Genclerbirligi65 mins27 touches14/17 passing0 shots1 key pass1 cross6/9 duels won1 clearance2 tackles (3 attempts)2/5 aerials won1 interception- Denizlispor playing better in the Super Lig since Mix arrived

In the Bundesliga, Timothy Chandler was an unused sub for Eintracht Frankfurt which posted a huge 2-1 win over Bayern Munich on Saturday to breath life into Bundesliga title race.

In Scotland’s Premiership, Scott Pittman started for Livingston in a 1-1 away draw against St. Mirren.

In Austria’s Bundesliga, Erik Palmer-Brown missed out on Austria Vienna’s 5-1 win over Altach due to a sore hamstring. Andrew Wooten started and played the full 90 for Admira Moedling in a 2-1 loss at home to LASK on Sunday.

In Spain’s La Liga, Yunus Mussah was an unused sub for Valencia in a big 2-0 win over Celta Vigo. That win moves Valencia into 12th place and now six points and six teams clear of the relegation zone. That is a massive improvement from a month ago.

In England’s League Two, Indiana Vassilev, 19, played the final 31 minutes for Cheltenham Town in a 2-0 home loss to Bradford City on Saturday.

In Hungary’s top flight, Henry Wingo was injured and out for Ferencvaros in a 1-0 win over Budapest Honved on Saturday.

In Poland’s top flight Ekstraklasa, Kenny Saief started and played 84 minutes for Lechia Gdansk in a 2-0 win on Gornik Zabre on Saturday. Ben Lederman played the final three minutes for Rakow Czestochowa in a 2-1 win over Zaglebie Lubin on Sunday.

In the Danish Superliga, Emmanuel Sabbi played the final 21 minutes for OB in a 0-0 draw with AC Horsens. Meanwhile, Haji Wright played 87 minutes for Sonderjyske in a 2-0 loss to AGF Aarhus.

In the Eredivisie, Luca de la Torre played the entire game for Heracles in a 3-0 loss on the road to RKC Waalwijk on Sunday.

In the Swiss Super League, Jordan Siebatcheu was not in the 18 on Sunday for league leading BSC Young Boys when it posted a 2-0 win over Servette.

In Scotland, Ian Harkes started and played 89 minutes for Dundee United in a 4-1 loss to league leading and undefeated Rangers.
