MLS DECSION DAY is over, we now know the playoff matchups that will begin after the November international window ends. Ever since the league moved to a Decision Day format by having all the games in each conference kickoff at the same time, it has generally been entertaining. This year did not disappoint.

The Eastern Conference was settled at the top, but the final seeds of the playoffs were decided right at the end when the final whistle sounded. Meanwhile, the West had a shakeup up and down the table with the playoff spots and the top seed all decided in dramatic fashion.Before we get to my thoughts from the weekend, it was a scene of farewells. Chris Wodowlowski, the league's all-time leading scorer hung them up after a 1-1 draw against Dallas - and Wondo scored from the spot. Also, Ricardo Pepi played what is likely his final game for FC Dallas as European clubs circle for him heading into the winter.

Without much hesitation, I voted for Robin Fraser to be the MLS Coach of the Year on Monday. Sure, Bruce Arena’s New England team was record breaking but on Sunday, Fraser’s Colorado Rapids team finished first in the West with a convincing 5-2 pounding of Los Angeles FC.

In 2019, then Colorado head coach bemoaned the state of the Rapids pretty much saying that the team couldn’t compete without expensive designated players and a low budget. Now in 2021, they’re atop the West with a similarly low budget.

????????????????#Rapids96 pic.twitter.com/e1wTxHk5Lz

Sunday’s 5-2 win over a disappointing LAFC Team was a good case study of why this team is so effective – and it’s also relevant from a U.S. national team perspective. The team gets great production from younger, domestic players and it has helped players develop.

Sam Vines was sold in August but he thrived in the organization to the point where he earned a sale to Royal Antwerp. Austin Trusty was fading at Philadelphia but has rebounded his career in Philadelphia to the point where he looks once again like a promising central defender. Kellyn Acosta revitalized his career in Colorado. Then you have Cole Bassett who would have been a big part of the past U-20 team and he scored one of the best goals on Decision Day here.

Love what the Rapids have done this year. Low spending, developing, selling, getting the most out of their team. Robin Fraser, coach of the year? Great goal from Cole Bassett here. pic.twitter.com/RRCmO0QefH

All of these pieces fit beautifully together on Sunday and the other results broke Colorado’s way with Seattle failing to win and Sporting Kansas City losing. Acosta was the MOTM in the LAFC win.

Kellyn Acosta: raw # for Colorado in 5-2 win vs. LAFC

Colorado is the top seed but are they the favorite in the West? Probably not. The playoffs aren’t about role players as much as they are about very talented designated players raising their games and becoming top difference makers. It’s why Philadelphia came up short last year and the playoffs became the Zelerayan show. Before that, winning in the postseason has been about players like Giovinco, Lodeiro, Almiron, Pozuelo, Josef Martinez, etc. Colorado doesn’t have these types of players and that will hurt in the postseason.

But they’re good and earning the top seed is no small accomplishment.

No one gave the New York Red Bulls much of a chance to make the playoffs this year in early September. The team was far out of the playoffs and seemingly lost with its player selections. The team never really replaced Aaron Long and the offense sputtered for long stretches.

On Sunday, the team most likely needed at least a draw and it did what it had to do in scoring in the first minute on a goal from Fabio off a lovely cross from Cristian Casseres. Despite conceding an equalizer, the Red Bulls were able to secure a big 1-1 away draw and that was enough given that Montreal blew its final game at home to Orlando. The DC win was not enough to catch the Red Bulls.

Fabio only needed 38 seconds to give @NewYorkRedBulls the lead with a spot in the playoffs on the line ?(via @MLS)pic.twitter.com/bDm34aTsmW

How did the Red Bulls climb? It’s because of the defense, not the offense. The offense has been good for capitalizing generally on one good chance a game – but that’s pretty much it. Over the Red Bulls climb in the second half of the season, it has scored multiple goals just once out of its last 11 games (and just twice out of 19 games) but still won six and drew four of those 12 games.

Patryk Klimala and Fabio need to increase their scoring rate if the Red Bulls want to win in the playoffs – which will begin away at Philadelphia.

One of the reasons why the Red Bulls have advanced to the playoffs this season is Sean Nealis. The Long Island native had a terrific season in central defense and raised his game in the absence of Aaron Long with a long consistent run of strong outings. The Red Bulls conceded just 33 goals this season – which was tied for the fewest conceded in the league. Combined with an offense that rare scores more than once again but still wins, the team’s defense deserves a huge amount of credit and Nealis is a huge part of it.

The most drama on Decision Day fell to Real Salt Lake which posted a controversial 1-0 win away of Sporting Kansas City to snag the final playoff spot in the West (and eliminate the LA Galaxy) while also give Colorado the space to finish atop the West in its run.

Essentially, Sporting Kansas City was denied a penalty when a Justen Glad handball was not called nor picked up by VAR. Five minutes later, Damir Kreilach scored a spectacular goal for RSL to break a 0-0 deadlock. Professional Referee Organization (PRO) has admitted the mistake in a published statement on Monday.

???????????????????????????? pic.twitter.com/Jzk8BOBkqH

This was wild and it perhaps the most consequential game of the league’s regular season, the refereeing got it wrong.

Sporting KC manager Peter Vermes said it was "a stab to the heart of every single person that is associated to our club and all the clubs that are competing because this result affects them as well -- Salt Lake gets in, LA gets knocked out. LA is now sitting on the outside because of a call, as well. That is incredibly, incredibly unprofessional."

“To see we have come so far but we haven’t come far enough because we can’t even get that right and we have replay… I’m embarrassed today to be a part of the league when you can’t do that,” Vermes added.

Yikes. Vermes might be a little over the top in his statements. Refereeing is not perfect, despite the attempts to always be correct. To be fair, this decision was just one reason why Sporting KC didn’t claim the West’s top spot. If they didn’t finish the season on a three game skid, they would be there. The LA Galaxy blew a double digit playoff cushion in the second half of the season. The Galaxy had over a dozen games they could have done better, the fact that they didn’t get it done in any of those is more to blame than the handball decision of a game they weren’t involved with.

RSL is a team without proper ownership and fought for everything to find a way to claw past teams with more talent. They played better than the sum of their parts and were able to take advantage of a big break.

90'+5' GOAL!!DAMIR KREILACH SENDS #RSL TO THE POSTSEASON!#SKCvRSL // #DecisionDay pic.twitter.com/Cns97LSmX9

Bad calls happen. This one would not be talked about if it happened in May and the calls tend to even out over time. RSL fought harder, didn’t collapse, and made their plays in a timely fashion to get into the playoffs – just as Colorado did to finish atop the table.

Orlando turned in the best performances on Decision Day in the Eastern Conference. Heading into Montreal, Orlando walked away with a 2-0 win over an opponent that was desperate – but probably a little unfocused as a result.

The team’s second goal was scored by Daryl Dike – the 30th goal of his professional career between club and country. The result secured a sixth-place finish in the Eastern Conference for Orlando and eliminated Montreal from the playoffs.

Daryl Dike’s 30th career goal for club and country combined. A span of just 16 months #USMNT pic.twitter.com/WqULArR8TR

Orlando, which did not play Nani, is a dangerous playoff team. They have a forward, defensive midfield, and designated players who are difference makers in this league. The international window should give the team enough time to rest and prepare. Oscar Pareja has done well with Orlando and Nashville is a tough out, but in the playoffs – favor the team with more firepower.

Atlanta United made a midyear coaching change and seemed likely to miss the playoffs at the start of August. The team rallied under interim management and under new manager Gonzalo Pineda and Josef Martinez has gradually found his footing again in his return from an ACL injury.

On Saturday, Atlanta United came from behind to defeat Cincinnati 2-1 on the road. Not surprisingly, Atlanta United got goals from Miles Robinson and Josef Martinez – two of their best players this season and players that the team will need for postseason success.

From a U.S. national team perspective, Robinson’s numbers continue to be excellent on a weekly basis.

Miles Robinson - big game, big goal #USMNT pic.twitter.com/H4aekEm2IL

Atlanta still has about as much talent as anyone in the league. Robinson, Martinez, Luiz Araujo, Ezequiel Barco, and Alan Franco are an impressive core. Still, the club hasn’t dominated many of its last games – Inter Miami, New York Red Bulls, Toronto FC, and Inter Miami.

This team should dominate but hasn’t. Opposing teams should be scared to play Atlanta, but aren’t. Perhaps the international window will allow the team to reset and prepare.

One of the most interesting games in the West was Seattle’s 1-1 draw with Vancouver on Decision Day. The result saw Seattle finish second in the West and Vancouver finish seventh to complete an unexpected run to the playoffs.

Seattle has had a poor run the past month to fall out of the top spot. Still, they will now host RSL in the opening round in a game they are heavily favored. The team now has Jordan Morris back and Nico Lodeiro back.

The international windows typically have a good way of eliminating momentum (good or bad) and bringing things back to squarely talent. That’s good for Seattle which can now train their best team and have them ready for the playoffs. Given the team’s success in the postseason, they’re still probably the favorite given the number of difference makers they have.

He could finish.. he's just been fantastic ????Your 2021 Domenic Mobilio Golden Boot winner: @_BrianWhite42#VWFC | @BMO pic.twitter.com/eltvixojhO

As for Vancouver, Brian White has been tremendous. He was the second highest American goal scorer in the league behind Pepi and the eighth highest scoring rate over 90 minutes (top American). The team forced its way into the postseason and is running on emotion. The international break, however, could halt that momentum while also giving Sporting (Vancouver’s first opponent) a chance to get beyond its skid.
