THE 2026 MLS season resumed in full force on Wednesday and it was a busy day for several young American youth internationals who are continuing to break through into the first teams at their clubs. There were a few big performances, a few lackluster ones as well – which is all to be expected.

But this week is also played in the backdrop of the United States U-20 team, which is in Mexico ahead of its opening World Cup qualifier on Saturday night. It appears as if head coach Gonzalo Segares was denied releases for several top players. That suggests these players are now key to their clubs.

But here is a look at the highlights followed by a broad look at how players in the U.S. U-20 and Olympic team pool performed last night.

Neil Pierre, 18, spent last season on loan with Lyngby in Denmark where he played an instrumental role in helping the club get promoted to the Superliga. Now he is back with the Philadelphia Union and looks as if he will be a big part of the team’s plans the remainder of the season.

On Wednesday, the tall 6’7” central defender came off the bench against the New York Red Bulls with the game tied 1-1. A minute later, Philadelphia took a 2-1 lead.

Then in the 66th minute, Pierre rose up and powerfully headed home a corner kick to cap the scoring at 3-1.

Neil Pierre is a top American prospect, and what a return to Philadelphia for the 6’6” central defender. He was great on set pieces for Lyngby last seasonIt hurts the U-20 team that he’s not with them for WC qualifying now, but this is an important step pic.twitter.com/beEIiZL4NR

This is going to be very exciting to watch Pierre in the coming years at Philadelphia as he is a top American prospect who should feature next year at the U-20 World Cup and then possibly the Olympics. He was likely not released to participate in World Cup qualifying with the U-20 team.

For U.S. Soccer, they definitely need Pierre to realize his potential as there have not many top central defense prospects emerging from the youth national team levels in recent years. Pierre is one of the best to emerge in recent U-20 cycles, along with Joshua Wynder.

Home debut ?First MLS goal ?#DOOP | @ChickfilA pic.twitter.com/WMbkFUbH4X

Of course, European clubs are going to be circling for Pierre, but he should stick around in Philadelphia for at least a season or two. Fans should try to watch him while they can.

Cavan Sullivan is, of course, widely known in American soccer circles but it appears now the 16-year-old is ready to make serious contributions to the Philadelphia Union first team. He had played well in friendlies during the World Cup break, but his performance against the New York Red Bulls on Wednesday was likely the best of his young career.

Sullivan did not score or assist, but he was dangerous throughout his 85-minute shift playing on the right side of the attack. His dribbling opened the game, his shots from distance tested Red Bull keeper Ethan Horvath, and he also won a stellar 11/13 of his ground duels.

Staying with the Philadelphia Union, right back Frankie Westfield picked up a very nice assist when his 57th minute cross found Indiana Vassilev who hammered it home with an outstanding volley.

Indiana Vassilev keeps it on frame to regain the Philadelphia lead! ???? pic.twitter.com/kJiWfsB190

Westfield impressed last year with the U.S. U-20 team and is likely going to be pushing to start for the Olympic team this cycle.

As is usual, the New York Red Bulls started three teenagers in central midfielder Adri Mehmeti, forward Julian Hall, and left back Matthew Dos Santos. The three have all had good games this season, but have been inconsistent – which is natural for their ages.

This was not a great game for these players, who were mostly contained by Philadelphia.

The best play from the group came in the first half when Mehmeti, 17, hit a nice pass in the build-up to Cade Cowell’s goal.

Combination through the midfield, and Cade Cowell finishes it ????‍????New York evens it with Philadelphia. pic.twitter.com/ptc2ydhdZj

Ervin Torres, 18, had a game to remember for Austin FC on Wednesday in a 3-1 win over the Seattle Sounders. He came into the game in 83rd minute with the score tied 1-1. He then hit two assists late in the second half (86th minute and 90+2 minute) to help deliver the win for Austin.

Ervin Torres ?? Myrto UzuniAustin gets the go-ahead! pic.twitter.com/L40SEOSwmp

Ervin Torres gets his second assist! ??Christian Ramírez extends Austin's lead late. pic.twitter.com/2yxm0jy7m8

Torres is normally a second team player and this has only been his third appearance with the first team (the other two have also been as a late substitute) but he clearly made the most of his opportunity here to build a case to start.

Matthew Corcocan, 20, put on a strong shift for first place Nashville SC in a 1-0 win over CF Montreal. The central midfielder is having a very encouraging season for BJ Callaghan’s side.

Against Montreal, Corcoran completed 79/83 passes and 8/10 of his long balls. He did a solid job keeping Nashville in control of the game.

He is a player who should be in competition for an Olympic team bid.

Preston Plambeck, 20, took advantage of rare playing time to score his first ever Inter Miami goal, which turned out to be a dramatic 87th minute winner in a 3-2 victory over Chicago. The Bradenton, Florida native came into the game in the 69th minute for just his fourth appearance.

The midfielder was in the right place to deliver Miami a win.

20-YEAR-OLD PRESTON PLAMBECK MIGHT'VE JUST WON IT FOR MIAMIThe hometown kid's first-ever goal in MLS. ???? pic.twitter.com/uv3J69W0oE

It remains to be seen if Plambeck is in serious contention for the Olympic team, but as of now it is unlikely. But if he can continue to get shifts for Miami, it will put him in a nice spotlight.

GRIZI GETS HIS FIRST IN @MLS ???? pic.twitter.com/NfC5mfPZaS

Potential U.S. U-20 defensive midfielder Jonny Shore played 77 minutes for New York City in a 2-1 win over Columbus. It was a decent shift from Shore and a good win for New York City which was hit with an injury crises during the break to its midfielders. That is likely why Shore is not with the U.S. U-20 team right now.

Max Carrizo, 18, came into the game in the 83rd minute for NYCFC.

Taha Habroune started for Columbus in the 2-1 loss. The 2025 U-20 World Cup veteran and Olympic hopeful covered a lot of ground and won a lot of duels but did not stand out that much.

Cooper Sanchez, 18, earned the start in the attacking midfield for Atlanta United in a 2-2 draw away to Charlotte. He played 89 minutes but did not factor into either Atlanta goal. He did not stand out that much, but he still left a favorable enough impression for more minutes. Olympic hopeful winger Luke Brennan played the final seven minutes plus stoppage time.

Both Peyton Miller and Brooklyn Raines started for New England in a 0-0 draw with Toronto. Raines did well in central midfield to keep New England on the front foot throughout the game. Miller played as a left winger and missed a very good chance just before halftime. Raines has a good chance of being on the U.S. Olympic team. Miller is eligible for the U.S. U-20 team but will likely focus on the Olympic team having played on the 2025 U-20 World Cup team.

Harbor Miller played the full 90 minutes at left wing for the LA Galaxy in an ugly 3-1 loss at home to St. Louis. Miller was one of the many players likely not released by his club to play for the U.S. U-20 team. Miller did not have a great game, but had his positive moments to contribute in the attack. That became more difficult after the Galaxy were reduced to 10 men in the 49th minute. With the result, the Galaxy fell out of the playoff positions while St. Louis moved in.

For St. Louis, Mykhi Joyner played 63 minutes at right wingback. The 19-year-old was subbed out as St. Louis changed formations while up a man and protecting a lead. Joyner did not get on the ball much, but he won just 1/7 of his ground duels and committed five fouls.

Things have not gone well for Seattle since the World Cup. First, it was a 5-1 loss to Portland at home and last night it was a 3-1 loss to Austin on the road. U.S. U-20 midfielder Snyder Brunell, 19, was not part of the team’s problem as he contributed in the build-up to Seattle’s only goal against Austin (his shot off the crossbar was tapped home by Paul Rothrock) and he was subbed out in the 67th minute with the score 1-1.

Paul Rothrock catches the rebound to equalize it for Seattle! pic.twitter.com/hGX32pmjQt

Brunell was likely not released for the U-20 World Cup qualifying tournament after he wore the armband for the team last month against Japan and his absence will hurt. For now, he must focus on trying to help Seattle get through a tough patch this season.

Zavier Gozo played all 90 minutes for Real Salt Lake in a 3-1 loss away to Los Angeles FC. Despite the loss, Gozo was RSL’s best player in terms of creating chances and taking shots. It remains to be seen if RSL can hang onto Gozo after this summer as his athleticism is elite. On top of that, he has a lot of positive attributes that should allow him to compete at a very high level.

Jude Terry, 17, was the first sub off the bench for LAFC in the 3-1 win over RSL. The score was 2-0 when he came into the game and while he was quiet, he did well whenever on the ball. The 2025 U-17 World Cup veteran has been showing signs of breaking through to the first team on a regular basis with LAFC.

Nolan Norris, 20, continues to have a decent season for FC Dallas and the 2025 U.S. U-20 World Cup veteran played 90 effective minutes at left back on Wednesday in a 2-2 draw with Porland. He is another player whose versatility should help him with the Olympic team.

Oscar Verhoeven, 20, played 90 minutes for San Diego at right back in a 1-0 loss to Colorado on the road.
