IT WASN’T expected to be a big day for American Soccer but that’s how it turned out to be with several key players in action in cup games and one of the country’s top young players hitting a magnificent first professional goal.

In the third round of the German Cup, Werder Bremen hosted Borussia Dortmund and both Josh Sargent and Gio Reyna were on the bench for their respective clubs.

The first half was all Werder Bremen with the hosts taking a 2-0 lead into the break. Sargent came into the game in the 49th minute and Reyna came in in the 66th minute. One minute after Reyna came into the game, Norwegian sensation Erling Haland cut the deficit in half. But Werder extended the deficit to two with another goal three minutes later.

Then in the 78th minute Reyna scored a goal for the ages when he showed a unique ability to control the ball in tight space, beat three defenders, and then unleash an unstoppable shot into the top corner.

It’s worthless to describe, so just watch it.

You don’t need me to post it. You’ll see it 1000x today.. but here you go pic.twitter.com/P9mTUXSWT5

It almost doesn’t even matter that Reyna’s team lost. With that goal, the son of the former U.S. national team captain showed his class and his potential. The only thing that remains to be seen is whether or not he will play with the U-23 team for the Olympics the next few months or the full national team.

Duane Holmes has been playing his best soccer of the season over the past month where he has been one of Derby County’s impact players. Aided by the arrival of Wayne Rooney, Holmes has played to his potential.

On Tuesday, Holmes got the start for Derby against fourth-tier League Two’s Northampton Town in the FA Cup.

In the 35th minute with Derby County up 1-0, Holmes doubled the lead when he took advantage of holes in the defense to get on the end of a pass and fire home from close range. With the goal, Holmes now has two goals and two assists over his last six games across all competitions.

Here is the goal from Duane Holmes right now to give Derby County a 2-0 lead on Northampton Town in the first half. Holmes is playing great the past month but obviously defense is optional for the League Two opponent pic.twitter.com/FVofpZO9yq

Holmes is now in significantly better position for a return to the U.S. national team in the coming months than he was in the fall. While his omissions was viewed as controversial in October in November, Holmes still only had one assists and no goals in the first half of the season. His form has greatly improved now and it would be surprising if he is left off in March if he keeps this form up.

There were numerous other Americans who all were part of nice wins, even if they weren’t on the scoresheet.

Weston McKennie was on the bench for Schalke’s German Cup matchup against Hertha BSC. Jurgen Klinsmann’s Hertha squad had a 2-0 lead on the road at halftime

McKenne came into the game in the 60th minute with his team still trailing 2-0. But Daniel Caligiuri goal in the 76th and Amine Harit’s goal in the 82nd sent the game into extra time. Benito Raman eventually won it for Schalke in the 115th minute. McKennie, however, was injured during his appearance and was not at 100%. EDIT: McKennie missed practice on Wednesday

Suat #Serdar, Jonjoe #Kenny and @WMckennie are all missing training today with ankle problems. #S04 pic.twitter.com/wffAeO4HJV

Next up for Schalke is a trip to the quarterfinals of the German Cup.

Also in the German Cup, Timothy Chandler came in the 81st minute for Eintracht Frankfurt in a 3-1 win over RB Leipzig (where Tyler Adams was an unused substitute for Leipzig). The game was 2-1 when Chandler entered the game and the American was on the field for the final goal in stoppage time.

In a fourth-round replay in the FA Cup, DeAndre Yedlin started and played a full 120 minutes for Newcastle United in a 3-2 away win over third tier League One team Oxford United.

In France’s Ligue 2, Kansas City native Niko Gioacchini earned the start for SM Caen against relegation fodder Chamois Niortais. The game was wild and back an fourth with SM Caen prevailing 4-3. Gioacchini, 19, went the distance although did not register a goal or an assist. This season, the American forward has two goals in 11 Ligue 2 games (797 minutes) and another goal over one appearance in the Coupe de France where he played 90 minutes.

In a bit of sad news, Josh Gatt has been on trial with reigning League of Ireland champs Dundalk FC and played today in a friendly against Longford Town.

Gatt, 28, was playing very well by all reports but then came up injured again. Gatt was once a promising young American player but has seen his career completely derailed by repeated knee injuries. Hopefully, this latest injury is not serious.

This is sooo depressing. Josh Gatt on trial at Dundalk (2019 League of Ireland champions) and plays in a friendly today. Looks good on the field until....... https://t.co/3xNpQ3FO9H
