THE JUNE INTERNATIONAL FIFA window concluded and while much of the attention was rightfully on the national team’s ongoing struggles, the federation’s top youth national teams all had successful and productive June camps. Specifically, the U.S. U-20 team had its final camp before traveling to Chile in September for the U-20 World Cup.

But the highlights of the June window came from the U.S. U-18 which defeated Portugal in a shootout in the final of the 2025 Friendship Cup. In the tournament, the team defeated France, Argentina, Australia en route to the final.

The U.S. U-19 team held camp in Marbella, Spain where they drew hosts Spain 1-1 and then drew Ukraine, also in a 1-1 score. David Vazquez scored the goal against Ukraine while Jonny Shore scored for the U.S against Spain.

Earlier today, the U.S. U-19 team drew 1-1 with Spain, with Andrew Rick and David Vázquez starting. Sal Olivas entered the match as a substitute in the 87th minute, while Vázquez exited in the 72nd.C.J. Olney was an unused substitute. The squad will now shift its focus to… pic.twitter.com/tSd3jyrK05

The U.S. U-17, meanwhile opened its camp in Valencia, Spain with a 2-2 draw with Canada while winning a shootout. In that game, the U.S. trailed 2-0 but rallied with goals from Ramiz Hamouda and Julian Hall – whose equalizer came in the 85th minute. In the second game, Chase Adams scored two goals but the team lost 3-2 to Sweden. But the team concluded camp with a 3-0 win over Japan with two goals from Jamir Johnson and one from Cavan Sullivan.

Then there was the U.S. U-20 team which held its final camp before World Cup preparations in September. That team had two games this window. Norway replaced Egypt as the opponent for the opening game and the U.S. team dropped a 1-0 decision. In the second game, the U.S. team defeated Colombia when Marcos Zambrano scored an 85th minute winner.

The most important of these camps was the U.S. U-20 team which took a strong lineup to Egypt for the loss to Norway and the win over Colombia.

There were some important takeaways. The first is that head coach Marko Mitrovic didn’t have either of his top three central defenders in camp after Matai Akinmboni withdrew. Neither Josh Wynder nor Noahkai Banks were on the initial roster for different reasons.

This was the team’s final camp before the roster is named and final World Cup preparations begin in September. As we move forward, there are a few important questions or topics.

The first and most obvious question is which players will be released by their clubs to play in the U-20 World Cup. Clubs are not required to release players for the tournament, but some clubs might find it a useful way for players to get games and to increase their value while playing in front of scouts.

Mitrovic has been speaking with clubs throughout the last several months. But discussions have only been able to go so far because of many reasons. First, we don’t even know which clubs some players will be at come September as loans and transfers could be on the table. Second, players might improve their role within their club teams significantly throughout the year. There will be players who were struggling for first team minutes who now might be starters. Finally, clubs might now be expected to be playing more important games in September. In MLS, there will be teams that might be in unexpected playoff races and therefore might need to keep players.

As we get ready to head into July, things will start to come into focus for Mitrovic as to where players will be and what their club standing is.

With regards to MLS players, Mitrovic should be able to get most players but there will be a few very important requests. Frankie Westfield and Peyton Miller are probably the two cases where he will have to lobby the most as both are likely starters for a first choice team. Westfield has surged this year to take the starting right back job in Philadelphia and this Union team will make the playoffs. But if they continue to be near the top of the table come September, they might feel there is enough cushion to let him go. Plus, the Union have a solid history of letting players go to youth World Cups and that might continue even under Bradley Carnell as coach.

With Peyton Miller, it might be more difficult given that New England is on the edge of the playoffs entirely. Miller is playing up a cycle and is a high level American prospect. It will again come down to how Caleb Porter and the front office feels about letting a young starter go late in the season.

The rest of the releases for MLS players have a variety of issues. There are players who should get released because they are struggling for minutes but have been good for the U-20 team all cycle (such as Atlanta’s Luke Brennan and Noah Cobb, Columbus midfielder Taha Habroune, Seattle’s Reed Baker Whiting, and Colorado’s Adam Beaudry). There are also those who play but for teams that do not seem likely for the playoffs (such as Real Salt Lake’s Zavier Gozo, FC Dallas defender Nolan Norris, and Houston’s Brooklyn Raines). Then there are there are those who play but who are only on the bubble for making the World Cup team (such as Chicago’s Sergio Oregel, New York City’s Johnny Shore, or San Diego’s Luca Bombino). There are also players like Benja Cremaschi who Miami seems to want to have involved.

With the abroad contingent, no one yet is a first team starter. Only Banks at Augsburg and Cole Campbell at Borussia Dortmund have played noticeable first team league minutes at a high level – albeit limited. Many other players on this team in Europe are still reserves (Pedro Soma, Marco Zambrano, Keyrol Figueroa, Ethan Kohler, Diego Kochen, Julian Eyestone, Leo Duru etc).

If things remain the same as they did at the end of the recent season, every European player could be released. But that won’t be the case. Some will improve their stock either at their existing club or at a new club, potentially on a loan).

The bottom line is that Mitrovic is likely to get a mix of first and second choice players based on the current landscape. If he can get all his MLS players, he will be in good shape.

A big battle for him will be getting one or two of his top three central defenders in Wynder, Banks, and Akinmboni. If he gets two, this team could go far.

Mitrovic will not win every battle, but when he doesn’t get a first-choice player, it will be important for him to get second choice players. He needs to hope he doesn’t have to revert to third, fourth, or fifth-choice teams. That would require him to call-up players without much first team experience and who haven’t played with the team this cycle.

Unlike previous cycles, there is no player not in consideration because they are in the pool for the full USMNT. But there are players who are making impressive jumps. Miller and Westfield have had big years in MLS while Campbell and Banks made the most progress abroad during that span.

It’s important for more players to make similar jumps and summer is an important time for young players both abroad and in MLS. We could see more movement.

Thus far, 2025 has been positive. Johnny Shore (who is playing up a cycle) has taken an important role in NYCFC’s midfield and Sergio Oregel starts most games for Chicago. Brooklyn Raines was a player who deserved more playing time with Houston and his situation has improved. Luca Bombino has also emerged with San Diego FC at left back while being on loan from LAFC.

But there are still potentially more cases to come. Luke Brennan has put up big performances for the U.S. U-20 team, his time might be coming for Atlanta. The same is the case for Taha Habroune for Columbus. Niko Tsakiris also isn’t where many hoped or expected after playing for the last U-20 World Cup team up a cycle, but he has the talent to still break through with San Jose.

This overall U-20 player pools struggled for minutes in the first year of the cycle in 2024. But the progress has improved in 2025 and the team is better for it. If that can continue with a few more players, the overall strength of the class will be where many had initially hoped.

The team’s ceiling or potential remains high. Despite mixing up lineups for games each camp, the team has defeated impressive opponents. The team played well even when top players such as Cole Campbell or Noahkai Banks were not available.

That doesn’t mean there aren’t any concerns. The biggest concern right now is the No. 9 position where Marcos Zambrano and Keyrol Figueroa have played most of the time in recent camps. While Zambrano scored against Colombia (a tap-in from a well delivered cross), he is not among this group’s top players.

Without a solid No. 9, it means the wingers and attacking midfielders are tasked with more responsibilities to create and score.

What is exciting about this team, however, is the team’s biggest strength is the entire backline and goalkeeping. The U.S. U-20 team hasn’t had a solid contingent of central defenders since 2019 and that has hurt the depth on the USMNT. This group might finally help the USMNT in that position.

Goalkeeping is also solid and it is deep. Diego Kochen, Julina Eyestone, Gavin Beavers, and Adam Beaudry would all be starters for the U.S. U-20 team most cycles.

Releases will be tough, but it is a team worth getting excited about.
