THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL team ended the September window on a high note after defeating Japan 2-0 in Columbus, Ohio on Tuesday night. Overall, it was a solid performance from the U.S. team where it made significant tactical adjustments and received contributions from different players.

Tactically, U.S. head coach Mauricio Pochettino introduced a 3-4-3 formation with wingbacks. This was designed to allow the U.S. team to attack better from wider positions. It also matched the systems which many of the U.S. team’s players use at their clubs.

That paid dividends in the 30th minute when left wingback Max Arfsten beat Japan’s Henry Mochizuki off the dribble and sent in a perfect cross to Alex Zendejas for a beautiful volley that gave the USMNT a 1-0 lead.

On the volley. Into the lead. Alex Zendejas blasts one home!#USMNT x @VW pic.twitter.com/oVkdNcdKaW

Then in the 64th minute, the U.S. team put the game out of reach when Christian Pulisic played a clever ball through Japan’s defense that moved Folarin Balogun into box for a shot on the left side. The AS Monaco forward took full advantage for a 2-0 lead.

Balo doubles the advantage!#USMNT x @VW pic.twitter.com/DD765BQQGl

Following that, the U.S. brought a wave of substitutions into the game to keep up the pressure and the U.S. came close to a third several times, including through Jack McGlynn who took a pass from Sergino Dest and hit a powerful shot off the crossbar.

Here are some thoughts on U.S. team in this game.

Former U.S. manager Gregg Berhalter tried the three-man backline formation, including in a win over Mexico in Nations League, but this was the first time for Pochettino. The U.S. team looked very comfortable playing this way.

Both fullbacks Max Arfsten and Alex Freeman (along with Dest) were more comfortable trying to get forward knowing they had defensive support behind them.

Tristan Blackmon and Tim Ream were on the outside of the three-man backline and both read the game well in terms of supporting the wingbacks well.

Attacking up the middle was still a work in progress as Tyler Adams and Christian Roldan were sitting deeper and playing more defensively but overall, it worked and Japan was outplayed.

Folarin Balogun: The AS Monaco forward was one of the big winners in this camp as it was his first time working with Pochettino. In the first game he was dangerous off the bench and offered the team’s best chances to score. Then against Japan, he scored and was regularly dangerous getting into scoring chances. It looks increasingly likely that Balogun and Ricardo Pepi could be the team’s top two forwards moving forward.

Alex Zendejas: after the game, Zendejas said he was surprised he was called up to the USMNT for this window. But the Club America winger/attacking midfielder made the most of his opportunity. He was dangerous off the bench against South Korea and he scored a highlight reel goal for a 1-0 lead on Japan. In the past, Zendejas has struggled with the USMNT and has looked nervous and timid in the international arena. In this window, he was confident and excited. He likely kept his spot.

Max Arfsten: after an average game against South Korea, Arfsten had a good performance against Japan. It wasn’t just his assist on the opening goal, he was comfortable getting forward and attacking. Arfsten is naturally a left winger and recently only plays as a wingback for Columbus. Prior to the Japan game, he was only playing as a pure left back for the USMNT – a position he is very inexperienced – and he struggled defensively. If Pochettino wants to continue with a three-man backline, Arfsten could succeed with the USMNT and would be a strong backup to Antonee Robinson. If Pochettino wants to keep four in the back, Arfsten could face tougher competition.

Christian Pulisic: The best U.S. player returned to the team this window and had his best international performance of 2025. He assisted on the second goal, and his touches and passing were on point during the game. This was a good performance and now it put the ugliness of the summer in the rearview mirror.

Matt Freese: the New York City goalkeeper had to make six saves in this game and he didn’t make any mistakes. He was always in good positions to make saves and intercept crosses.

In both September friendlies, the substitutes were effective. Against South Korea, the team’s best opportunities came once McGlynn, Roldan, Zendejas, and Balogun came into the game.

Against Japan, the starters played well but the U.S. team kept up the pressure once the substitutes came into the game in the 63rd minute.

Jack McGlynn was a substitute in both games and in both games he played well. Whether he starts or comes off the bench, the Houston Dynamo midfielder has a role. His defense isn’t great, but he has an elite left-footed shot from distance. If the opposing team is sitting deep, he can help open up the game with a long shot or a long pass into the box. For some players, it is about being able to do something different and give the coach more variety to the team. McGlynn does that and he had a good camp, despite not starting.

???????? #USMNT x Allstate pic.twitter.com/pw2SQzPhsw

But Pochettino is still trying to figure this team out and understand this group of players. The team still has a long way to go, but his in-game management through his use of substitutions was successful this month.

The results from this September camp, both the win and the loss, will be soon forgotten as they are meaningless and are too far from the World Cup to be considered momentum-building. What is important and what has future significance is lessons Pochettino learned from his team over the past 10 days.

Pochettino said the September camp was about looking at some players he hasn’t seen recently – or ever. He also said that some players remained with their clubs due to having only recently moved over the summer window or having only recently returned from injuries.

Starters in Columbus.#USMNT x Allstate pic.twitter.com/kXZpvNwz5P

Some of those players are obvious – Johnny Cardoso, Yunus Musah, and Ricardo Pepi.

There are also a lot more players where we don’t know how Pochettino rates them. This would be Tanner Tessmann, Aidan Morris, Joe Scally, Matt Turner, Mark McKenzie, Cameron Carter-Vickers, Walker Zimmermam, Miles Robinson, John Tolkin.

A lot will still be sorted out with how players perform with their clubs, but this past window offered up some insight.

One observation is that Josh Sargent could be in trouble. As great as he has been in the Championship with Norwich, Sargent still hasn’t scored for the USMNT since 2019. Pochettino dropped a hint on Sargent in leaving him off the Gold Cup team. But he was brought back into camp this window and still didn’t score. Meanwhile, Folarin Balogun found the back of the net and was much more active. Combined with Ricardo Pepi returning to the field for PSV, Sargent might not have many opportunities remaining.

Other forwards such as Damion Downs, Patrick Agyemang, and Brian White probably have a tough road as well with Balogun back and Pepi nearing a return.

Central defense continues to be unsettled after Chris Richards. Pochettino likes Tim Ream but age is always a factor. Noahkai Banks didn’t play but was called-up in September as part of a look to the future. Until he starts for Augsburg, he’s likely not an option for the World Cup.

While Blackmon’s performance against Japan was a big improvement over his first appearances against South Korea, he didn’t rise above the long list of other central defenders in the pool after the Ream and Richards tandem. This list includes Mark McKenzie, Cameron Carter-Vickers, Walker Zimmerman, Miles Robinson.

With a World Cup roster of 26 players and if Pochettino decides to keep a three man backline in play, he might keep five central defenders.

There is some clarity right now in the fullback positions. Sergino Dest and Antonee Robinson are big parts of the team with a good chance of starting. Meanwhile, all evidence points to Max Arfsten and Alex Freeman also likely on a roster if it were to be selected right now.

But Pochettino wants competition and there are others pushing this group. Joe Scally, Jonathan Tolkin, and possibly Kristoffer Lund are in the mix although they look like they are on the outside of the bubble for now.

Fullback positions seem easy to identify the starters, the backups, and the ones on the outside but pushing.

This is one of the hardest areas to figure out Pochettino’s direction. There were a many very good center midfielders left off the team this past window including Tanner Tessmann, Aidan Morris, Yunus Musah, Johnny Cardoso, and Weston McKennie. You can include James Sands who was supposed to be in the January Camp before his move. Cardoso’s absence was explained after his recent move to Atletico Madrid. But McKennie’s club situation is up in the air. Morris and Tessmann have both been in great form at the club level but neither were with the team this summer or September despite being healthy and in stable club situation.

Stepping into The Fortress. pic.twitter.com/AtnGstqcjX

Then you combine that with those who were involved this summer or September: Tyler Adams, Jack McGlynn, Luca de la Torre, Sebastian Berhalter, Sean Zawadski, and Christian Roldan.

Between those here and those not here, that is 12 different player that probably needs to be cut in half for the final roster. But that highlights what Pochettino wants – lots of competition with players desperate to fight for their spots.

Matt Freese played every minute of the September window and now leaves camp having kept a clean sheet in a win over Japan where he played well. That likely keeps him the starter if he can continue to be in good form for New York City.

After that, we don’t know much.

SIX saves for Matt Freese which ties his career high in international play!For every clean sheet, @Dial and @Henkel are are donating to support local classrooms and communities.Learn More: https://t.co/VTF4DBqjpv pic.twitter.com/sJg4z13v9Z

Matt Turner was left off this roster and the Revs won’t make the playoffs. Zack Steffen is in even murkier territory. Patrick Schulte is still in the mix with the Columbus Crew.

Meanwhile Roman Celentano and Jonathan Klinsmann did not make their USMNT debut in September.

The most likely guess is that Freese, Turner, and Schulte come into camp in October but this position needs sorting out and it will come down to the players at their clubs.

This position is less murky right now. Christian Pulisic and Tim Weah are back. Alex Zendejas played well in September, and he will be tough to leave off. Then there is also Haji Wright, who is playing well at Coventry.

In attacking midfielders (who can also play wing if needed) Malik Tillman is an important player to this team and Pochettino trusts Diego Luna.

People will be watching Gio Reyna, but for now he is on the outside of the picture until he plays and plays well.

There are also both Brenden Aaronson and Paxten Aaronson who were part of the Gold Cup team but struggled for minutes.
