THE UNITED STATES Men’s National Team defeated Jamaica 1-0 at “The Office” in Kingston on Thursday night to head into a favorable position in its Nations League quarterfinal series. The game started off entertaining but quickly turned into a typical CONCACAF away slog that featured turnovers, injuries, poor field conditions, seven second half yellow cards, and a red card to cap it off.

The U.S. team took the lead in just the fifth minute when Christian Pulisic played Ricardo Pepi with a through-ball that set him for a shot from the right side, which he was able to finish past Andre Blake.

After that, it was not an easy ride for the U.S. team. A very poorly sequence of events saw Matt Turner concede a penalty in the 13th minute (Turner was far from the only culprit in giving Jamaica that opportunity) which he was subsequently able to save with an impressive effort.

Turner says no! #USMNT pic.twitter.com/XkGf5Vl9jz

Then in the 20th minute, Johnny Cardoso was unable to continue due to an injury and he was replaced by Malik Tillman.

But the rest of the game wasn’t pretty, at all. Yunus Musah made a close-range tackle on Mason Holgate to end a threat in the 65th minute. Minutes later, Turner was able to block a corner that was heading into the goal. Jamaica was on the front foot for stretches but it ended once Holgate was sent off for his second yellow card in the 86th minute and the U.S. team was able to easily see the game out.

A pregame message from Pochettino ????? pic.twitter.com/MBTj4Hr9Sd

Here are some thoughts and notes on the performance.

After the game, head coach Mauricio Pochettino said all the right things. First, he was happy with the way the U.S. team was able to compete in this game. He noted the obvious that road games in CONCACAF are not easy and Jamaica was supported by a boisterous home crowd of 25,000. It was a professional performance from the USMNT.

He was also correct to point out that Jamaica has impressive individual quality – led by Leon Bailey, many of the players are based in England.

Jamaica has always been a difficult opponent for the U.S. team. Since 1988, the teams have played 33 times and 24 of the games have been decided by one goal or less. Therefore, the likelihood of a big U.S. win in Jamaica was always small.

LEG ONE IS OURS ???????? pic.twitter.com/UXTqgeerFY

But Pochettino also said that his team must be better and improve. It is only his second camp in charge of the team, and he is not making significant changes, but he did stress the team needs to be better.

If Turner had conceded his penalty and/or if Tim Ream was called for a handball in the box in the second half (he wasn’t), this would have been a very different game.

Make no mistake, this was an extremely close game that could have gone either way. The U.S. team won and teams always deserve credit for winning on the road in CONCACAF. But there is plenty of room for the U.S. team to improve.

After games, there is typically an analysis of how players performed individually and who helped or hurt his case the most for the future.

With regards to who helped themselves the most, two players come to mind.

Tanner Tessmann: The Lyon midfielder and recent U.S. Olympic team captain helped his case the most. The Alabama native is in the period of his career where he is putting it all together at the club level but is now starting to see that translate over to the USMNT. That is sometimes difficult for players (as we’ve seen with Johnny Cardoso and Malik Tillman). But without Tyler Adams this camp, Tessmann looked very comfortable in that position. When Cardoso had to leave the game early, Tessmann had more responsibilities, particularly defensively as that is not Tillman’s strength. But Tessmann was good on both sides of the all in this game.

Ricardo Pepi: the PSV forward scored the lone goal and at the age of 21 he has very positive numbers for the U.S. team. It was Pepi’s 12th USMNT goal and it is already his second goal under Pochettino. Pepi has been able to take advantage of Josh Sargent, Haji Wright, and Folarin Balogun being hurt and he has only played well in the extended minutes. Right now with Pochettino, it is all about who comes to trust. Pepi has earned that trust, and that will make it tough for the others once they come ack from injuries.

Pepi! 1-0 pic.twitter.com/BAi9ApFxrT

In terms of players who struggled, Weston McKennie more closely resembled the version of himself at the Copa America this summer than the Juventus caliber player who has impressed at the top of Serie A and the Champions League. Mark McKenzie and Tim Ream were poor on the play that eventually led to the conceded penalty – but were otherwise okay.

Matt Turner: The U.S. goalkeeper conceded a penalty but then did very well to save it. He also made several good stops. It was tough for him to play out of the back given the field conditions, but he did well enough. Still needs to play more at the club level to shake off the rust. Rating: 6.5

Antonee Robinson: The Fulham left back had a mixed performance. He covered a lot of ground and typically helped the fact the U.S. was more dangerous attacking down the left side over the course of the game. But he was beaten by Holgate for a good Jamaican chance and he missed a big chance to score early when a close shot was saved by Blake. Rating: 6.0

Tim Ream: The USMNT captain was okay in this game defensively except for when Nicholson earned the penalty and waltzed past Ream and McKenzie before forcing a foul from Turner. Ream had some nice long passes out of the back that helped the U.S. build attacks quicker. Rating: 6.0

Mark McKenzie: The Toulouse defender was partly responsible in conceding the Jamaican penalty when Nicholson got past him, but McKenzie made many of the U.S. team’s best defensive plays in the game. Passing and in possession, he wasn’t as composed as Ream. Rating: 6.0

Joe Scally: The Borussia Monchengladbach right back didn’t standout in this game but had a few bad plays – particularly with an incepted pass on the play leading to Jamaica’s penalty. He was on the ball quite a bit, but didn’t do much. Rating: 5.0

Tanner Tessmann: A good outing from Tessmann who helped the USMNT win the midfield in a road victory in CONCACAF. It was a professional and competent performance from Tessmann who drew three fouls, committed no fouls, was 35/38 in passing, and won 4/5 of his ground duels. Once Cardoso left in the 20th minute, Tessmann easily handled more of the responsibility in the middle of the field. Rating: 7.0

Johnny Cardoso: The Real Betis midfielder completed 15/15 of his passes before leaving the game in the 20th minute due to injury. Rating: NR

Weston McKennie: The Juventus midfielder didn’t show much but was thrown off his game by physical and chippy plays from Jamaica. He committed three fouls, drew none, and loss a big percentage of his duels (like he did at the Copa America). Rating: 4.5

Yunus Musah: The AC Milan midfielder was limited offensively but made U.S. team’s best defensive play in the second half on a goal-saving tackle close to the goal. It was a play that was sure to impress Pochettino who regularly stresses he is looking for “desire” and “desperation” from is U.S. players. Rating: 6.0

Christian Pulisic: The U.S. team’s best player did what is expected of him when he set up Pepi’s goal with a smart pass into the box. Then in the second half, he set up Brandon Vazquez for a chance. Rating: 7.0

Ricardo Pepi: The PSV put the U.S. in a great position for a result when he opened the scoring in the fifth minute. That was Pepi’s only touch in Jamaica’s box before coming out in the 73rd minute. The rest of his performance was him participating in hold-up play, where he was decent. But he took advantage of his best chance, and that is what you want from a forward. Rating: 7.0

Malik Tillman: The PSV midfielder came into the game earlier than expected after Cardoso was forced to leave in the 20th minute. What was good about his performance is that he was far more involved defensively than he has been and he helped break out Jamaica’s direct play once the U.S. team pulled ahead. Offensively, he didn’t have a big impact creating or being part of chances. Rating: 6.0

Gianluca Busio: The Venezia midfielder came into the game in the 72nd minute and was also asked to play a scrappy defensive role in the middle of the field. Overall, he did his job. Rating: 5.5

Brandon Vazquez: After coming into the game in the 72nd minute, the Monterrey forward had a chance to put the game away when he was played towards the goal from Pulisic, but failed to do anything dangerous. Rating: 4.5

Auston Trusty: was a late, time-wasting sub. Rating: NR

Alex Zendejas: was also a late, time-wasting sub. Rating: NR
