THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL team fell to Turkey 2-1 in a friendly on Saturday in Hartford and the game served as both a pre-Gold Cup preparation and a measuring stick for where the team stands a year out from the World Cup. The overall performance was mixed. There were promising stretches as well as periods that showed the team has a long way to go.

Of course, some familiar faces are not with the U.S. team this summer although the results and performances from the past year indicate that there are not as many locks as previously thought and there are plenty of roster spaces up for grabs.

The U.S. team began the game in great form when Jack McGlynn scored the opening goal in the second minute with a perfect left-footed shot from distance. But Turkey rallied with goals in the 24th and 27th minutes. The first Turkish goal came after a horrible play from Johnny Cardoso when he attempted to play the ball casually out of the back only to have it bounce off Turkey’s Arda Güler and into his own goal.

Then in the 27th minute, the U.S. team had a defensive breakdown from multiple players which left Turkey’s Kerem Aktürkoglu with an open shot from close range.

Here are my thoughts about the game.

When Mauricio Pochettino announced his starting XI, there were some immediate concerns. The biggest issue was the midfield trio of Johnny Cardoso, Luca de la Torre, and Malik Tillman combined with Jack McGlynn and Diego Luna in different positions on the wings. Out of position wingers was always going to be an issue without Christian Pulisic and Tim Weah because there are simply not many wingers in the broad player pool in 2025.

But above all, where is the defense? Cardoso, de la Torre, and Tillman are typically players that need defensive support around them. Together, they were very vulnerable to allowing Turkey to cruise through the midfield.

Wingers must also be required to defend and while McGlynn and Luna have very strong skillsets with the ball, they are neither fast nor very defensive.

It should not have surprised anyone that the U.S. team’s performance in the first half was chaotic. Sure, the team had some nice moments and McGlynn’s goal was very well taken. But when the U.S. team didn’t have the ball, the players were frantically chasing, and the defensive shape didn’t hold together. Turkey scored two and could have had more in the first half.

The second half was much better and a lot of that could be pinned on Tyler Adams, who replaced Cardoso to start the second 45.

Adams showed just how effective he can be with his presence. Immediately when he entered, the team’s defensive shape held together much better. The transition from defense to offense was far more coherent. And, most importantly, the backline was under far less stress than in the opening half.

Had Adams played the entire game, it is entirely reasonable to think that things would have been much better for the U.S. team overall. Yes, the U.S. team needs a backup for Adams so that he is not the only player separating the team from being very disorganized. But it should make it very clear what the U.S. team needs out of a No. 6.

Cardoso had a terrible half before he was pulled. First, there was the play that gifted Turkey its first goal. He casually tried to hit a side-footed pass across his own box without properly addressing where Turkish players were. Playing out of the back requires players not to be so careless with the ball.

But aside from that, Cardoso wasn’t very good defensively and couldn’t help the team keep shape. Adams was a significant replacement in the second half.

As everyone knows, Hartford holds the title of Insurance Capital of the World.But every insurance carrier in the great state of Connecticut deems the #USMNT playing out of the back to be uninsurable due to the extreme risk of #WPIOOTBGW - like this pic.twitter.com/QZigup2RXc

This performance only continues to make Cardoso one of the more frustrating players in the USMNT pool. He has been a great player for his clubs – first with Internacional and lately with Real Betis. Now he appears as if he is heading towards a lucrative move to Atletico Madrid. He is extremely talented and a big-time player in Europe.

Translating that high-level talent to the USMNT has been elusive. This fall will mark the fifth anniversary of his USMNT debut. Over that time, he is still yet to have a defining performance where he looks to be an impact player. After the mistake on Saturday, his frustration was noticeable.

Cardoso will continue to get looks and opportunities because he does have talent. But the chance of him starting important games the remainder of the World Cup cycle seems to be decreasing.

There were positives to take away from the U.S. team’s performance aside from Adams.

Before we get to the players, one of the most important positives was simply that people weren't questioning heart or commitment. The U.S. didn't play in a dispirited or lethargic manner which hounded them in March. They also didn’t completely crumble in the face of adversity, which plagued them at the Copa America. Against Turkey, the team gave an honest effort and improved as the game went along.

Now the players.

Jack McGlynn scored the U.S. team’s only goal and he has perhaps the best left foot in the entire player pool. He’s not afraid to shoot – which he shouldn’t be – and he was rewarded with a great goal. But he also takes set pieces well, can typically pass well from range, and is overall useful in the attack. He is not a complete player and his athleticism might eventually hold him back from reaching the highest levels, but he belongs on this team. He can make big plays and can do things that others in the pool can’t do. This game reflected that.

The goal from Jack McGlynn. What a left foot!Assisted by Malik Tillman pic.twitter.com/MabpunOyaD

Mark McKenzie came on for the second half and was a big positive in the backine. Yes, he had the benefit of having an improved midfield in front of him, but this effort saw him boost his stock.

Max Arfsten and Alex Freeman were both up and down but ultimately their positives outweighed their negatives. Arfsten missed two big scoring chances but attacked with some flair and defended well without much support from wingers. Freeman was partially responsible for the second Turkish goal but he is still in his first season as being a starter at the club level and is on a fast track. He made youthful mistakes but there is an upside there.Luca de la Torre was one of the best players on the field for the first 30 minutes of the second half before fatigue began to set in. But it was a promising return to the team for the veteran who now plays his trade with San Diego FC.

Chris Richards was the mature presence you expected from a now veteran who has several thousand Premier League minutes under his belt and an FA Cup title.

Malik Tillman assisted on McGlynn’s goal and looked more in-sync than he has typically with the USMNT.

There were concerns for the team aside from Cardoso.

Miles Robinson struggled in the first half, although he might have fared better in the second half once Adams helped straighten out the midfield. Ultimately, his stock dipped a little from the first half.

Patrick Agyemang missed a good chance in the second half and his touch let him down. Brian White was an improvement towards the end of the game.

The U.S. team was completely dedicated to playing out of the back. It worked on the opening goal but is also risky. Cardoso’s mistake was bad, but mistakes happen and playing out of the back only leads to situations where mistakes often lead to serious consequences.

“Poch said pretty much this whole week in the way he’s been encouraging us, is to keep playing the ball out of the back,” Chris Richards said. “And if you make a mistake in possession, then so be it. At least, you made a mistake trying.”

But a big question moving forward is whether this is necessary? If the U.S. team can win duels and second balls, it can have possession further up the field without the risks. On the other hand, playing out of the back gives the opportunity to break lines into an open field.

It takes a lot of skill to pull it off and it remains unclear if the U.S. has that skill. Until then, we don’t exactly know how big of a gamble this approach is. Fair questions for Pochettino are at what point is he willing to pull the plug on this and what has to happen for him to decide on that? Also, what does Plan B look like and will he practice Plan B?

The U.S. team will host Switzerland on Tuesday in Nashville and Pochettino will seek out two objectives. First, he wants to win and help change the narrative that is engulfing the team. Winning would only help to create momentum.

But he also needs to look at other players and formations.

Matt Freese was given the chance against Turkey and it was good to see more goalkeepers get the chance. Freese didn’t make any big saves but wasn’t responsible for the goals either.

Richards and McKenzie were solid together in central defense, but there will continue to be rotations in central defense as no one has had that chemistry yet.

Fullbacks might see John Tolkin given a look at left back, but Tolkin only recently joined the team and Arfsten has now been with the team for all of 2025.

Central midfield also has openings, but Pochettino might revolve any trio around Adams. But at some point, Sebastian Berhalter, Brenden Aaronson, and Paxten Aaronson will be given looks.

The front line seems most ripe for changes given the makeshift wingers at Pochettino’s disposal and the relative inexperience of the center forwards. Damion Downs could get a real look given his mobility and his strong season with FC Cologne. Brian White is very useful, but in situations where the U.S. will have possession and has the chance to get onto balls in the box. Downs and Agyemang seem to be more likely to help in an open field where they can run at defenders. But Agyemang’s touch let him down against Turkey and that might open the door for the young Downs.
