WITH EUROPEAN LEAGUES nearly all back in action as well as the transfer window deals coming down to the wire, here are the top stories involving American players in Europe. For now, we will start in the Champions League where two Americans will be off to the tournament’s main phase for the first time.

We begin in Austria..

On Tuesday, Sam Adenerian and George Bellow took part in one of the all-time great comebacks in Champions League qualifying/playoff history as LASK climbed past Celtic in a dramatic 5-4 aggregate win.

After losing the first leg in Glasgow 3-0, Celtic scored first in Austria to take a 4-0 aggregate lead. Then in the 32rd minute, LASK began a comeback for the ages scoring goals in the 32nd and 48th minutes to cut the deficit in half. Then in the 58th minute, Adeniran scored his first goal of the game to bring LASK within one at 4-3 on aggregate.

What a goal from Houston’s Big Sam Adeniran against Celtic pic.twitter.com/aPZlpn67dL

Then after Florian Flecker equalized for LASK in stoppage time, it was Adeniran who put LASK ahead for good with a goal in the 109th minute with another shot from distance.

Here’s the massive goal from Adeniran in one of the best comebacks of the year. Celtic was ahead 4-0 on aggregate and this goal puts LASK up 5-4. Adenerian with 2 goals And that’s it! Game over! LASK is into the Champions League! What a comeback!! pic.twitter.com/r9vIO7xjs1

Adeniran almost completed the hattrick in the 118th minute when LASK drew a penalty but his shot was saved (Adeniran had been 6/6 in penalties with LASK before this). But it did not affect the outcome as LASK prevailed.

For Adeniran, this was the latest and most dramatic step in what has been an amazing year. In May, he scored in the Austrian Cup final to give LASK the win over Altach. Then in the final games of the Austrian Bundesliga season, he scored a wave of dramatic goals to help LASK finish atop the table to complete the double.

Prior to his time at LASK, Adeniran bounced around MLS and the USL with his best season coming in 2023 with St. Louis where he scored 10 goals. After struggling with Philadelphia, Adeniran decided to head to Austria and accept an offer to play for LASK – which has started a remarkable revival. He is now off to the Champions League and is likely the top forward in the Austrian Bundesliga.

As many are wondering, does this put him in the mix for the U.S. national team? He has certainly helped his case with this level of success. He is behind Folarin Balogun and likely Ricardo Pepi as well. Haji Wright and Patrick Agyemang are injured. There are also younger options that are starting to break through like Justin Ellis and Julian Hall.

With Mauricio Pochettino, he does like to give prime-age players and late bloomers chances.

Meanwhile, George Bello went the full 120 minutes for LASK in the historic win and was key to the build-up of the team’s late equalizer. Like Adeniran, he has had a career full of challenges, although he came up through the U.S. system with a lot of hype. But now he will get a chance to play in the Champions League and perhaps return to the mix of the U.S. national team.

This was simply a great result for two Americans who have not had it easy, but have made the most of trying to revive their careers in Austria.

Unfortunately for the U.S. national team, this result was not good for two central defenders in Cameron Carter-Vickers and Auston Trusty. Trusty went 120 mintues in this game and Carter-Vickers had to leave at the start of extra time, likely due to injury.

Trusty had 16 clearances in this game and struggled to connect with the team’s midfield (although that was more of a problem with the midfielders). Physically, Trusty tired and was pushed around in the second half through extra time.

This was an embarrassing loss for Celtic who again was unable to qualify for the Champions League when beginning in the qualifying rounds.

Some years bring with them different trends. At the start of the 2026 season, there is a noticeable movement for American players who are in need of minutes to make moves to Scotland (outside of the Old Firm teams) to help get on the field.

Colton Swan: The U.S. U-20 forward is making the move from the Charleston Battery to Hibernian in Edinburgh this winter after the USL Championship season. Swan, 19, currently has even goals and two assists for Charleston in 907 minutes this season.

???? An upward trajectory Take a deep dive into the burgeoning career of Colton Swan, who is set to link up with the Hibees this winter ??????????

???? An upward trajectory Take a deep dive into the burgeoning career of Colton Swan, who is set to link up with the Hibees this winter ??????????

Jacob Murrell: the former Georgetown University Hoya is moving from DC United to Falkirk in Scotland’s Premiership. The 22 year old Maryland native scored three MLS goals in 59 appearances dating back to 2023.

?? Falkirk Football Club is delighted to announce the signing of Jacob Murrell from MLS side DC United, subject to international clearance and SFA approval.?? https://t.co/XgGvvGhZwZ pic.twitter.com/MGq0qden9q

CJ Fodry: in addition to Murrell moving to Falkirk, Austin FC attacker CJ Fodry will also be moving to Falkirk on loan from Austin FC. He has one MLS goal in 50 appearances with Austin since 2023.

Sources: Austin FC has loaned forward CJ Fodrey to Falkirk FC in the Scottish Premiership.Loan is through June 2027.#AustinFC

Matai Akinmboni: The 19-year-old central defender went to Dundee FC on a recent trial in hopes of securing a loan from Bournemouth. That trial was apparently successful an the former DC United homegrown will travel north for a season on loan in Scotland.

Christopher Cupps: The Chicago Fire homegrown and U.S. U-20 central defender will head to Greenock Morton FC on loan in the Scottish Championship for the remainder of 2026 and rejoin Chicago ahead of the 2027 preseason.

We have loaned Homegrown defender Christopher Cupps to Scottish club Greenock Morton F.C. through the end of 2026. #cf97 pic.twitter.com/oNYVdnpcIM

JJ Williams: The Rhode Island FC forward is moving to Hearts on a full transfer. The 27 year old Georgia native has eight goals in 17 games this season.

?? We are delighted to confirm the signing of American striker JJ Williams from USL Championship side Rhode Island FC for an undisclosed fee, subject to SFA approval and ITC.Welcome to Tynecastle Park, JJ! ???? pic.twitter.com/wHaq4de2D7

None of these players are even close to the U.S. national team pool but yet these clubs see value digging deep into MLS bench options or USL starters for players. The fact that a number of Scottish clubs are taking this approach shows a changing reputation in that country that there is a lot of talent in the states that can help clubs there. It’s not just top MLS players.

Damion Downs, 22, had a terrible year in 2025/26. After a strong season the year before in helping Koln earn promotion to the Bundesliga where he scored 10 goals in the 2.Bundesliga, Downs made the move to England to join Southampton in the Championship. He immediately did not fit in and rarely played. In January he was loaned to Hamburg back in his native Germany but did not score in 12 Bundesliga appearances the rest of the season. Now back at Southampton, the club is trying to unload him with two MLS teams reportedly showing interest.

???? Southampton striker Damion Downs is attracting interest from two MLS teams, with a return to the USA currently his most likely exit route #saintsfc @AlfieHouseEcho pic.twitter.com/cy8voBCwqA

After a brutal season, wherever he can play would be a good option. As for MLS, some teams would be clearly better for him than others. He just needs a clean slate.

We are getting late in the summer European transfer window. Mark McKenzie played for Toulouse over the weekend but seems likely to return to Philadelphia.

The biggest American name to watch in the coming days is Folarin Balogun who has not suited up for Monaco yet. It was listed as an injury but most believe it is due to a potential sale. There have been some crazy posts on social media listing huge clubs like Barcelona, Tottenham, and Aston Villa as being interested but there has not been anything to support that.

But a move to the Premier League certainly seems reachable at this point.

Joe Scally was left off the matchday squad for Borussia Monchengladbach over the weekend and it appears he needs to leave the club before the end of the window if he needs to play. His departure is very different than most given that he has played 2000+ minutes every season with the club since he was 18. But with his level of experience, he should find a taker soon.

Per BILD, Borussia Mönchengladbach sports director Rouven Schröder has publicly advised #USMNT right back Joe Scally to find a new club, stating that he would be "unsatisfied" in his current situationhttps://t.co/K3rxdpnu4v pic.twitter.com/uzFv3n89Bi

Rokas Pustas continues to play for Hajduk Split and he is in his fourth season as a starter for the Croatian club. Given that he can sign for another club starting in January as it is the last year of his contract, this is the last window Hajduk can make money off of him.

Then on Wednesday, a report out of Croatia suggested that Middlesbrough was now a leading candidate for Pukstas where he would become the club’s fourth American player after Aidan Morris, Sebastian Berhalter, and Max Arfsten.

At this point in his career, Pukstas, 21, seems like a wild card. He’s done well in the Croatia’s HNL since he was 18 years old although improvement over that time has been modest. He has not had much international involvement (outside of the 2023 U-20 World Cup) and his appearances in European competitions have been decent but not great. But playing at such a young age in a developmental league such as the HNL does open doors.

In very unfortunate news, Kevin Paredes came off the bench for Utrecht in the 63rd minute of a 3-3 draw with Sparta Rotterdam but was involved in a ugly collision involving his leg just before the end of the game. He had to leave the stadium on crutches and is now staring at another long-term injury.

Paredes left Wolfsburg after last season in large part because he missed most of the last three seasons due to ankle injuries.

Many of PSV Eindhoven’s games against the bottom half of the Eredivisie are lopsided. Such was the case on Saturday as PSV blew out Groningen 5-1. Groningen actually scored first in the 9th minute but from there, it was no match.

Ricardo Pepi scored PSV’s third goal just before halftime when he converted a penalty that was drawn by teammate Guus Til. Pepi now has goals in each of his last two Eredivisie games to start the season.

Sergino Dest then added PSV’s final goal of the game during a counterattack when he cut centrally to get on the end of a pass from Ruben van Bommel.

Both of PSV’s Yanks are in good form to start the season but the real test for both is in the Champions League.

Musah impresses: After a very unsuccessful loan last season to Atalanta, it did not seem as if Yunus Musah would be in a good position returning to AC Milan (where he was not in the plans prior to his loan). But under Milan’s new manage, Ruben Amorim, Musah seems to have put his career in a better place.

Musah started Milan’s season opener and played all 90 minutes in a 2-1 win over Torino. Musah played a deeper-lying central midfield role and helped his team in possession with solid passing. He was not a game changer, but he played positively in Milan’s win.

It remains to be seen if this will continue for Musah as Milan’s roster could continue to change before the window. But for now, he’s in much better place than he has been in at least two years.

Also of note, Christian Pulisic made the bench for Milan but did not see the field. He did not play this preseason due to the leg injuries he suffered against Belgium at the World Cup.

Bad loss for Busio: After earning promotion to Serie A last season, the hope at Venezia is that this is finally the time when the club can remain in Italy’s top tier, especially after significant investment from its new financial partners. In the Serie A opener, however, Venezia lost at home to a Lecce team that narrowly escaped relegation last season. While early seasons games are rarely critical, this might have been an exception. Playing Lecce at home are the exact type of games a newly promoted team in Serie A needs to win because Lecce is direct competition.

Busio, 24, was Venezia’s best player in the loss. He has 122 touches, was excellent with his passing from deep positions, won his duels, and played well overall. But this was a bad loss. Maybe he can elevate the team in the weeks and months ahead. If not, maybe he can find a Serie A club that will buy him.

Cremaschi returns: Benjamin Cremaschi returned to the field for the first time since suffering a knee injury in March. Since that time, Parma exercised its purchase option from his loan from Inter Miami. Over the weekend, Cremaschi played the final five minutes for Parma in a 1-0 loss at home to Cagliari.

McKennie starts in Juventus win: Weston McKennie played all 90 minutes for Juventus in a 1-0 away win over newly promoted Frosinone. The Texan played in an advanced midfield position and did not stand out much but still helped his team get off to a strong start to the Serie A season.

McKenzie’s farewell?: It what might be his final appearance for the club, Mark McKenzie went 90 minutes for Toulouse in a 2-0 loss at home to Lyon. McKenzie played well but it was not a good result for his club. McKenzie is widely reported to be returning to Philadelphia in the coming days. Meanwhile, Tanner Tessmann played the final 10 minutes for Lyon.

Weah Captains Marseille over Gio and Strasbourg: Marseille had no trouble getting past Strasbourg in its Ligue 1 opener 4-0. Tim Weah put on a solid but unspectacular 90 minute shift for Marseille, although the big story for him is wearing the captain’s armband.

For Weah, he needs to build-up confidence after a difficult summer with the U.S. national team where he lost his starting job and now has several poor tournaments in a row (dating back to the 2024 Copa America).

Gio Reyna played the final 21 minutes for Strasbourg, which was reduced to 10 men before he came into the game (with the score 2-0). Reyna completed 17/17 of his passes but most were conservative and not dangerous. After a terrible preseason, Strasbourg showed no reason to have any confidence in this team this season. The question for Reyna is simpley whether he can play a lot of minutes. That is still to be determined.

Ahead of the Bundesliga opening round this weekend, several Americans were in action in the German Cup. Of particular interest was two Americans who are newly promoted clubs who are expected to be in relegation battles this season.

Castaneda scores against FC Phönix Lübeck: Santiago Castaneda was instrumental in helping Paderborn to promotion in May through the promotion/relegation playoff against Wolfsburg. In a 4-2 win over FC Phönix Lübeck of the fourth-tier Regionaliga, Castaneda headed home his team’s second goal off a corner kick to make it 2-0.

GOOOLLLL from Santiago Castañeda! He scored yesterday for Paderborn in the DFB Pokal against Phönix Lübeck in his team's 4-2 away win! ???????????? pic.twitter.com/xinViswX1k

This doesn’t really reflect much on Paderborn’s ability to compete in the top flight this season but it does suggest that Castaneda, 21, will be a starter this season. Even if Paderborn goes down, he might find a buyer in a top league given his youth.

Campbell starts in an Elversberg win: Cole Campbell went 90 minutes for Elversberg, which defeated MSV Duisburg 3-1 in the first round of the German Cup. Campbell played well on the left wing and this also suggests he could be the team’s Bundesliga starter. Elversberg is predicted by many to be relegated but the team has played well this preseason and could be confident of surprising many.

Tolkin returns to Holstein Kiel bench: John Tolkin returned to the field for the first time since his April knee injury and played 90 minutes for Holstein Keil in a 2-0 win over 1860 Munich.

Tillman goes 90 in Bayer win: Malik Tillman went 90 minutes for Bayer Leverkusen in a comfortable 4-0 win over Wehen Wiesbaden.

Between the Championship, Premier League, and midweek Carabao Cup games, there has been a lot of games in England.

Big week for Aaronson: U.S. national team attacker Brenden Aaronson had a big week both on and off the field. He signed a new contract that will keep him at Leeds United through 2029. Then his team had to face Nottingham Forest twice, once in the Premier League and once in the Carabao Cup. Leeds won both games without conceding a goal. Aaronson started and played 82 minutes in the 1-0 win in the league, although he was not on the field for the winning goal. Then he played the final 23 minuets of a 2-0 cup win, entering the game in the 67th minute with the score 1-0.

Overall, Aaronson is off to a strong start to the season where he looks like a starter for Leeds in the best league in the world.

Robinson starts in Chelsea loss: Antonee Robinson went 82 minutes for Fulham in a season-opening 3-2 loss to local rivals Chelsea. Overall, there was not much good or bad to report on Robinson’s season debut.

Adams subs into Bournemouth collapse: For awhile, it appeared as if Bournemouth might have pulled off an upset against Manchester City in the opener. Bournemouth had a 1-0 lead into the 84th minute but conceded two late goals en route to a 2-1 loss. Tyler Adams subbed into the game in the 75th minute.

Yank trio features for Middlesbrough: It was a mixed week for Middlesbrough which lost to Blackburn 2-1 in its second game of the season but then defeated Doncaster 3-1 in the second round of the EFL Cup. Aidan Morris, Sebastian Berhalter, and Max Arfsten all started against Blackburn whereas just Arfsten and Berhalter started against Doncaster. The performances were mixed and uneven as neither of the Yanks had a healthy or full preseason.

West Brom wins with Captain George Camobell: West Bromwich is one of three clubs in the Championship that has won its first two league games of the season. The second win was a 3-1 victory over Burnley. American central defender George Campbell has helped guide West Brom to its strong start to the season as the team’s captain. The former Montreal and Atlanta United defender is making a case to be part of the U.S. national team to start the new cycle.

Kristoffer Lund makes Birmingham City debut: After joining the club at the end of preseason, American left back Kristoffer Lund made his debut this week for Birmingham City in a Carabao Cup game against Brentford. Unfortunately, it did not go well as Birmingham City lost 6-1. Lund started and left the game in the 61st minute with his team down 3-1. With Tolkin back, Bello in the Champions League, Arfsten starting for Middlesbrough, and other options such as Luca Bombino emerging stateside with San Diego, a return to the national team seems a long way off for Lund.

Freeman and Cardoso struggling for LaLiga minutes: In Spain’s top tier, the two Americans in the league are both struggling for minutes. Johnny Cardoso has been an unused substitute in each of Atletico’s first two games. Meanwhile, Alex Freeman played only two minutes in the first game while going unused in the second game as Villarreal and Atletico played to a draw.

Gioacchini and de la Fuente in LaLiga 2: In Spain’s second tier, Konrad de la Fuente featured in each of Sporting Gijon's first two games of the season. First, he went 28 minutes in a 0-0 draw with Sabadell and then started and went 61 minutes in a win over Burgos. Meanwhile, played in each of Sabadell's first two games (both scoreless draws). In the opening game, he went 27 minutes against Gijon and then he started and played 58 minutes against Castellon.
