IT HAS BEEN AN EVENTFUL week in terms of news and what you need to know is that the Jesse Marsch employment saga has taken a turn for the worse, but in Guatemala, the United States U-17 team is heading towards the knockouts of its World Cup qualification.

Let’s dig right into the news:

The U.S. U-17 team completed group play at the 2023 CONCACAF U-17 Championships with a perfect nine points from three games following Wednesday’s 1-0 win over Canada. The loan goal came in the 65th minute when Liverpool’s Keyrol Figueroa headed home an outstanding cross from winger David Vazquez.

Great cross from Vazquez and a classy header from Figueroa. - If he signs, Vazquez could be another good homegrown for Philadelphia pic.twitter.com/so5OumU6St

The United States will now play the Dominican Republic on Saturday night in the Round of 16. Should they win, they will face the winner between Guatemala and the runner up of Group G (which seems like it will be Guadeloupe but there is an outside chance of Costa Rica or Jamaica). Guatemala could be the trickiest given they are the host nation.

What is to make of the U.S. team’s performances from the group stage? The U-17 level is very different from the U-20 level. They are far less complete as players and form can dip or rise quickly. Things can be very inconsistent from game to game between players and the entire team. Results do need to be taken with a grain of salt.

The U.S. team has been able to control the tempo and pace of games quite easily. Unfortunately, the team has been lacking a final pass deep in the attacking third to create top quality chances. When the team has managed a breakthrough with passes, the finish has typically been lacking.

The team shows a lot of talent, but it is still a work in progress putting things together. In each of the three wins, the U.S. team should have been up by a lot more. Against better teams, the U.S might have been trouble on the limited times the opponents have ben able to get on the front foot.

Against, Trinidad & Tobago, the U.S. team had a tough 15-20 minute spell in the second half when T&T had the better of play. The U.S. had the 3-0 cushion from a strong start, so it wasn’t a problem. Canada finished the first half playing well (after a tough first 37 minutes) but the U.S. found control in the second half. But the U.S. should have produced much more in its past two games.

In the knockout stages, the U.S. team will need to have more of a killer instinct early in games. If they can get a quick lead, the game should open up more than it did in the group stages as opponents will be forced to come out of their shells given the elimination on the line.

The good news is that head coach Gonzalo Segares has also given a big priority towards mixing his lineups given that the games have been every other day. We haven’t yet seen a first-choice starting XI.

But now Segares has the chance to go all out. The first knockout game is on Saturday, for two days of rest. Then the quarterfinal isn’t until Wednesday. After that, the results aren’t too important given that World Cup qualifying is secure after the quarterfinals.

This team hasn’t seen a massive breakout player like the 2015 team did with Christian Pulisic or the 2019 team did with Gio Reyna, but the team seems fairly deep.

Winger David Vazquez played well in the group stages and he seems like he could become the next impressive Philadelphia Union academy product. The club should be aggressive to finally getting the homegrown deal done.

Keyrol Figueroa has also impressed. It remains unclear what trajectory he is on at Liverpool and it has been a long time since an American has thrived at a Premier League academy.

Cruz Medina is also another player who has looked the part and his hat trick in the opening game set the tone. His play has been uneven, but that is due to youth. The upside is there.

The defense simply hasn’t been tested yet and we will learn more about them in the knockout rounds.

All in all, more is needed but the performances have been fine, so far.

Everyone, including us at ASN, was talking about Jesse Marsch this week as if his signing onto becoming the next Southampton manager was a foregone conclusion. Well, hold that. On Tuesday night, Marsch was in England but the two sides could not reach an agreement reportedly due to the club’s reluctance to commit past this season. Southampton sits last in the Premier League and is four points deep in the relegation zone.

Southampton was probably intrigued with Marsch about how he guided Leeds United last season to safety. Marsch was able to connect emotionally with his players, have the club play positively, and seemingly will themselves to avoid relegation.

But then there is the question of next year. What would happen to Marsch if they were relegated to the Championship? Or what would happen if they stayed up?

What is perhaps most interesting is that Marsch’s system would probably have a lot of success in the Championship. With his aggressive pressing, the Championship lacks the quality the Premier League has to play through that press.

Does this now mean Marsch could be back in the picture for the U.S. team? Maybe. But Marsch might also want to stick at the club level if there is more opportunity.

Talks between Southampton and Jesse Marsch over becoming manager have broken down. #SaintsFC pic.twitter.com/WOHanwke2r

On Wednesday, several Americans took the field for games.

In the Championship, four Americans were involved.

The standout was Zack Steffen who had nine saves for Middlesbrough in a 3-1 away win over Sheffield United. This was the best game of the season for Boro which solidified its grip on third place and cut into Sheffield United’s lead on second place (and automatic promotion) with the gap now seven points. But winning at Sheffield United was a statement for Boro. Steffen making nine saves put him front and center of the win.

U-S-A, U-S-A ????@zacksteffen_ #UTB pic.twitter.com/Vy73CtTq0W

Luton Town will be disappointed settling for a 1-1 draw at Preston North End as the hosts were reduced to 10 players in the 50th minute. Still Luton Town remained in fourth place and is in good position to qualify for the promotional playoffs after the season. Ethan Horvath made one save for Luton Town.

Daryl Dike played the final 9 minutes for West Bromwich in a 1-1 draw with Blackpool. He had six touches, one shot, drew one foul, and was 3/3 in his passing.The good news is that American left back Jaheim Headley, 21, made his first start in the Championship on Wednesday for Huddersfield Town away at Stoke. The bad news is that he struggled over 90 minutes and Huddersfield dropped a 3-0 decision to remain in 23rd place – four points deep in the relegation hole. Duane Holmes remains injured until mid-March for Huddersfield.

Huge congratulations to Jaheim Headley on his first Town start and it’s great to see Pat Jones back in the match day squad too ????@SporteBrokerHQ | #htafc pic.twitter.com/nOUGqYqu8V

In the Premier League, Matt Turner watched from the bench as his Arsenal dropped a 3-1 decision at home to Manchester City. With the win, Manchester City moved atop the Premier League table on goal differential over Arsenal.

In the Champions League Round of 16, first leg, Borussia Dortmund defeated Chelsea 1-0 and Gio Reyna was an unused substitute for BVB. Interim USMNT manager Anthony Hudson was in Dortmund to watch the game. It will be interesting to see how any conversation between the two went after the game given U.S. Soccer’s investigation into the Reyna family’s conduct during and the World Cup is still ongoing.

On Thursday:

Ajax hosts Union Berlin in the Europa League with Jordan Pefok hoping to take part.

Sevilla hosts PSV Eindhoven in the Europa League and Richard Ledezma might make the roster although rumors of a loan stateside are lingering.

In Brazil’s Gaucho tournament, Internacional hosts EC Sao Jose with Johnny Cardoso possibly taking part for Internacional.

The New York Red Bulls defeated the Galaxy 1-0. United States Olympic hopeful Cameron Harper scored for the Red Bulls in the 50th minute – which fielded a strong starting lineup minus Dante Vanzeir. Harper looked sharp and is pushing for more minutes. Meanwhile, John Tolkin remains one to watch.

For the Galaxy, Tyler Boyd played his second straight game for the Galaxy despite not being announced yet as a new Galaxy signing. U.S. U-20 defender Jalen Neal also looks like a player who should make his MLS debut soon as he started for the Galaxy.

Another preseason win ? pic.twitter.com/nhIc61Dlk7

St. Louis and NYCFC played to a 3-3 draw. St. Louis has been playing better towards the end of preseason. Nicholas Gioacchini started for St. Louis while Akil Watts and Indiana Vassilev scored the team’s first two goals. For NYCFC, Americans Keaton Parks, Justin Haak, Alfred Morales, and Tayvon Gray all started.
