UNITED STATES U-20 head coach Mikey Varas today announced his roster for an important camp that will run from March 21-30 in Argentina and will feature two games: against Argentina’s U-20 team on March 26 and River Plate on March 29. The roster will consist of 20 players, and it will mark one of the final times Varas will have his team together before this summer’s tournament in Honduras that will serve as qualification for the 2023 U-20 World Cup and the 2024 Olympics.

The roster Varas called in is relatively strong and he was able to secure some of his top players. The most notable exceptions would be Ricardo Pepi and Gaga Slonina – two players who have been involved with the senior national team recently.

Here is the roster and here are some thoughts on it.

GOALKEEPERS (2):Alexander Borto (Fulham/ENG; South Plainfield, N.J.; 1/0), Christopher Brady (Chicago Fire; Naperville, Ill.; 0/0)

DEFENDERS (7):Justin Che (Hoffenheim/GER; Richardson, Texas; 3/0), Brandan Craig (Philadelphia Union; Philadelphia, Pa.; 0/0), Mauricio Cuevas (Club Brugge/BEL; Los Angeles, Calif.; 0/0), Marcus Ferkranus (LA Galaxy; Santa Clarita, Calif.; 0/0), Kobi Henry (Orange County; Lake Forest, Calif.; 2/0), Jalen Neal (LA Galaxy; Lakewood, Calif.; 3/0), Caleb Wiley (Atlanta United; Atlanta, Ga.; 3/0)

MIDFIELDERS (7): Paxten Aaronson (Philadelphia Union; Medford, N.J.; 2/0), Caden Clark (New York Red Bulls; Wayzata, Minn.; 2/1), Daniel Edelman (New York Red Bulls; Warren, N.J.; 2/0), Diego Luna (El Paso Locomotive; Redwood, Calif.; 2/1), Jack McGlynn (Philadelphia Union; Middle Village, N.Y.; 2/0), Rokas Pukstas (Hajduk Split/CRO; Stillwater, Okla.; 2/0), Obed Vargas (Seattle Sounders; Anchorage, Alaska)

FORWARDS (4):Brian Gutierrez (Chicago Fire; Chicago, Ill.; 3/0), Kevin Paredes (Wolfsburg/GER; South Riding, Va.; 0/0), Dante Sealy (PSV Eindhoven/NED; Frisco, Texas; 2/0), Quinn Sullivan (Philadelphia Union; Philadelphia, Pa.; 1/0)

In February, Mikey Varas told ASN in an interview that that he sees the No. 9 center forward position to be his team’s biggest concern at this stage of the cycle. Sure enough, this roster reflects those concerns. Pepi is likely not going to feature with the U.S. U-20 team (at least not anytime soon). Malick Sanogo doesn’t appeared to have done much with his call-ups to the first two camps. Patrick Weah is out with an ACL tear.

There are options but it likely involves playing players out of position. Brian Gutierrez and Dante Sealy appear to be the strongest possibilities this camp. Last camp it was Kristen Fletcher, a 2005-born attacking midfielder, who was tried at the No. 9. Sealy and Gutierrez may work or may not, but it seems as if Varas is really digging into options that are not ideal with such an important tournament approaching.

The most impressive name on the roster is Obed Vargas, the central midfielder for the Seattle Sounders. He might not be the best player on this roster at this point, but he has enjoyed the most stunning rise over the past few months amongst the entire U-20 pool. A native of Alaska, Vargas has been starting for Seattle to start the season and this included wins over Club Leon in the Champions League and against the LA Galaxy. As a 2005-born player, Vargas is playing up a cycle with the U-20 team but in big games against adults, he has looked mature beyond his years.

Last month following the January camp, Varas told ASN: “I have given Obed the challenge to play his way into this group. He is a really strong player and it is a tough position. But he did really, really well. He’s a top talent.”

Since then, Vargas has only responded well to the challenge from Varas. He has earned accolades for his performances and looks set to be taking an important role within this team.

On a side note, Vargas grew up a fan of the Mexican national team and El Tri is certainly watching Vargas with interest.

It is also important to note that of the 20 players on this team, four are current Philadelphia Union homegrown players. Paxten Aaronson, Quinn Sullivan, and Jack McGlynn have been with the team for each of the three camps. Defender Brandon Craig will be in for the second time.

It speaks volumes of the quality of talent that the Union organization is turning out at the moment.

“I told Ernst [Tanner] that I’m always impressed with the Philadelphia Union players because I think the club does a good job identifying talent,” Varas told ASN. “And they do an excellent job of creating players who are creative but who also have a work ethic – that willingness to be just a grinder.”

It gives an insight into the type of players Varas wants on his team. Technicality and skill is important, but Varas is clearly looking for players who work hard and have a first-rate work ethic. Those traits can typically be found in players in certain environments, and Varas believes that is in Philadelphia.

Overall, it’s a strong roster. There aren’t too many notable absences given that Pepi and Slonina are likely needed further up the pecking order within U.S. Soccer.

The three players whose absences stand out the most are San Jose winger Cade Cowell, DC United midfielder Moses Nyeman, and Real Sociedad B left back Jonathan Gomez (Gomez and Cowell earned their first national team cap in December).

Other than that, the roster stands out for who is on the team instead of who is not there.

Kevin Paredes will make his first appearance since moving from DC United to Wolfsburg and Varas said last month that he met with Paredes in December and wanted to find a way to get him involved because he sees him as an important part of the team.

Justin Che was in camp in November and has been making the bench for Hoffenheim (where he is now on loan). Varas was previously with FC Dallas and knows Che well so it will be interesting to see if Che plays centrally or as a right back, where he played for Dallas last season.

Caleb Wiley is a 2004-born left back and one who could compete for minutes – especially if Gomez is not with the team. He has already been playing for Atlanta United.

Rokas Pukstas is as midfielder now on a first team deal at Hajduk Split and has been on the bench with the first team, with a debut seemingly close.

Combined with the Philadelphia Union mainstays, Obed Vargas, and other regulars such as Diego Luna and Daniel Edelman – the core of the team is becoming more clear and this roster reflects that.
