HAPPY THURSDAY TO all the ASN readers out there. While many of you are getting ready for the start of the weekend tomorrow, Thursday marks the end of what has been a very busy slate of midweek games both domestically and abroad.

Let’s start domestically

Lionel Messi has played in brutal conditions before – such as in the extreme altitude of La Paz or in scorching heat in Europe or the Middle East. But Wednesday’s night’s game in Kansas City was about as brutal as it gets. With windchills making it feel around -10 degrees, Inter Miami opening up its CONCACAF Champions Cup with an impressive 1-0 result over Sporting KC.

As it could only be, Messi scored the only goal of the game in impressive fashion when he collected a looping ball into the box, controlled it by taking it backwards, and then hit a low driving shot past John Pulskamp for a lead.

As for the rest of the game, it was tough to watch in the conditions. The big takeaway is that it was a big early test for Miami’s new manager Javier Mascherano, who struggled coaching Argentina’s youth teams. It was a good sign for Mascherano to see his players give a big effort, despite the conditions. It would have been easy for them to walk through it and then go all out in the return leg in Florida. But they instead gave a big effort in this game.

The big line from Mascherano after the game is he said playing in such conditions were “not human.”

Inter Miami head coach Javier Mascherano on the Leg 1 win:“I am very proud of (the team) because it is impossible to play in these conditions. It is not human.”#InterMiamiCF #Messi????

Unfortunately, the opposite is true for Sporting KC. They should have been able to do more in this game.

Expectations are high in Cincinnati despite the loss of Luciano Acosta. Cincy made serious upgrades in a number of key positions. The biggest additions were a pair of designated players in Kévin Denkey from Cercle Brugge and Evander from Portland.

Early returns were promising as both players scored against Motogua on Thursday night.

But the score was a little misleading because in the first half, Motogua squandered multiple big chances and Cincinnati was able to capitalize on theirs through individual quality. Cincy wouldn’t need to play much better to beat a better team.

Still, Cincy is in preseason form and this wasn’t a bad outing considering that.

Antigua 1-3 Seattle Sounders

It was an easy night in Guatemala for the Seattle Sounders in a 3-1 win over Antigua. In a year when most of the Western Conference looks worse, Seattle should be better. I am optimistic for their chances. In this game, Paul Arriola scored in the opening minutes and looked upbeat in his new environment. Jesus Ferreira also looked happy to be out of Dallas and that could be a sign he will score with regularity this year. Obed Vargas owned the midfield, which is also promising and Seattle needs to try to hang on to him this summer when Liga MX clubs or European clubs come knocking.

Seattle needs Pedro de la Vega to stay healthy and be in good form. That will be the deciding factor whether Seattle is successful this season.

De La Venga had this goal in the 61st minute that was aided by a deflection, but still a good strike.

If De la Vega stays healthy, I think the Sounders will be good this year. This was a great strike pic.twitter.com/wsOmB6oHF1

Real Salt Lake lost a lot of talent in the offseason and expectations should be a little muted. Still, this was a good result for RSL to leave Costa Rica with a the score even. Utah won’t be an easy place for the guests to play.

But RSL doesn’t look nearly as sharp as the other MLS teams we’ve seen so far in this tournament.

Another result that needs to be taken with a grain of salt due to the frigid temperatures. But the result still stands and Colorado has a 2-1 edge returning to Los Angeles and LAFC now has an away goal. Given the result, LAFC should still be considered favorites – but it is a tricky situation.

Djordje Mihailovic scored both goals for Colorado. The first was off a penalty, the second was beautiful free kick past Hugo Lloris.

FREE KICK MASTER ????#COLvLAFC | @DjoMihailovic pic.twitter.com/b4YR2qN7Fa

There has been a lot of American success in the Champions League, but the four players between AC Milan and Juventus are now out of the tournament following a nightmare week for Serie A teams in Europe.

With Juventus defeating PSV 2-1 in the opening leg in Turin, PSV responded with a 3-1 win in Eindhoven to advance. With Malik Tillman and Ricardo Pepi out, Richard Ledezma was the only USMNT-eligible (for now, Mexico might be calling) representative for PSV and he went 90 minutes at right back in a decent effort.

For Juventus, the only goal was a wonderful strike from Tim Weah who gave the Italian club brief hope of advancing – about 10 minutes before PSV retook control.

Absolutely tremendous goal from Tim Weah… wowIt was great news for Juventus for only a few minutes as PSV have since taken a 2-1 lead pic.twitter.com/GGBLB0PL0V

Weston McKennie had an average outing for Juve, like most of the team’s other starters. His positional switching has probably made it tough to find a rhythm.

As for Christian Pulisic, Yunus Musah, and AC Milan – they were bounced by Feyenoord. Both Americans started and were decent, but Milan simply didn’t have it as a team. The 1-1 draw was not enough after Feyenoord won the opening leg. Julian Carranza, who was on the Philadelphia Union last season, scored the winning goal for Feyenoord.

For Milan, the team is functioning poorly as a unit. After multiple coaches, it’s becoming clear that the team signed many players who do not fit well. Right now, they’ll be lucky to qualify for Europe.

Is Alex Zendejas the best player in Liga MX? It’s hard to argue otherwise as he scored for Club America in a 1-1 draw with Leon on Wednesday night. He now has a goal or an assist in six straight Liga MX games.

In a time when the United States national team remains unsettled under new manager Mauricio Pochettino, Zendejas is raising his game at the perfect time.

In the Copa Libertadores on Wednesday night, Boston River defeated Chile’s Nublense 1-0. Agustin Anello, who played for the U.S. U-23 team in 2023, played the final 22 minutes for Boston River and came into the game with his team even 0-0.

On Thursday, Alan Sonora and Cerro Porteno visit Monagas in the Libertadores qualifier.

In a positive step for MLS, the league has adopted the “Only the Captain” rule to prevent “referee swarming.”

Following key decisions, only the captains for respective teams may approach the referee once he signals for space. If other players enter that space, they are immediately given yellow cards.

This is a rule that was way overdue.

I think it's a great decision that MLS has announced its adoption of the "Only the Captain Rule"- the aim is eliminate "referee swarming"- only the captain from each team is permitted to approach the referee to discuss and retrieve information- If a team’s captain is the… pic.twitter.com/oIZzLeQcHL
