ON THURSDAY, U.S. U-19 head coach Gonzalo Segares announced his roster for a camp during the March international window that will take place in Spain and feature a friendly against Wales on March 28 in Olivia. This team will eventually turn into the U-20 team that will participate in U-20 World Cup qualifying this summer

Given that World Cup qualifying for this group begins on July 25, there is not much time for this team to prepare.

Here is the roster along with several thoughts.

GOALKEEPERS (2): Zackory Campagnolo (Colorado Rapids; Fort Myers, Fla.), Giorgio De Marzi (Roma/ITA; Rome, Italy)

DEFENDERS (6): Drew Baiera (New York City FC; Darien, Conn.), Braden Dunham (Furman University; Peachtree City, Ga.), Jose Magana Jr. (LA Galaxy; Long Beach, Calif.), Harbor Miller (LA Galaxy; Brea, Calif.), Neil Pierre (Lyngby/DEN; Hershey, Pa.), Joshua Torquato (FC Dallas; Aubrey, Texas)

MIDFIELDERS (6): Snyder Brunell (Seattle Sounders; Kirkland, Wash.), Marvin Dills (Eintracht Frankfurt/GER; Frankfurt, Germany), Colin Guske (Orlando City; Saint Johns, Fla.), Santiago Morales (Inter Miami; Weston,Fla.), Jonny Shore (New York City FC; New York, N.Y.), Ervin Torres (Austin FC; Laredo, Texas)

FORWARDS (6): Mathis Albert (Borussia Dortmund/GER; El Segundo, Calif.), Justin Ellis (Orlando City; Wellington, Fla.), Aiden Hezarkhani (Real Salt Lake; Irvine, Calif.), Daniel Pinter (Inter Miami; Boca Raton, Fla.), Ruben Ramos Jr. (LA Galaxy; La Puente, Calif.), Cavan Sullivan (Philadelphia Union; Philadelphia, Pa.)

Despite having recently coached the U.S. U-17 World Cup team in November, Segares has elected not to bring in many players from that team. Only Cavan Sullivan and Mathis Albert were brought into this roster.

Instead, Segares is leaning heavily on the 2007 birth year with everyone except for Sullivan an Albert being part of the 2007 class.

We will see how that changes moving forward given that there are a lot of young players getting minutes in MLS this season such as Julian Hall, Matthew Dos Santos, or Adri Mehmeti at the Red Bulls.

But for now, Segares is relying on the 2007 birth year group to lead this team.

In terms of players in the best form, winger Adian Hazarkani has been very impressive to start the season for Real Salt Lake where he has scored a pair of impressive goals in the opening games.

Marvin Dills made his first team debut with Eintracht Frankfurt in the Champions League when he played the final seven minutes in a 2-0 loss to Tottenham. He is yet to make his Bundesliga debut.

Harbor Miller has made a pair of MLS appearances with the Galaxy as well as a start in the CONCACAF Champions Cup.

It is difficult for young players to break into first team minutes at Inter Miami, but forward Daniel Pinter started in the club’s 0-0 draw with Charlotte last weekend. Left midfielder Santiago Morales also started that game.

Colin Guske, a central midfielder, has made three appearances and two starts for Orlando City, which has been struggling to start the season (and has already undergone a coaching change).

Snyder Brunell played all 90 minutes for Seattle on Wednesday in a 2-1 win over Vancouver in the Champions Cup. Seattle won the series 5-1 on aggregate.

Much of the attention on this roster will center around Cavan Sullivan and Mathis Albert who are considered to be among the top prospects in U.S. Soccer. Both born in 2009, they are eligible for the next U-20 World Cup as well.

But his is a great test for them as they will now leave the U-17 program and step into a team of much older players and still be expected to contribute. It is a step up but it is an appropriate step up for them. Sullivan impressed for the Philadelphia Union this week in a 1-1 draw against Club America in Mexico City. While the Union were eliminated, it was the most comfortable Sullivan has looked at the first-team level.

If Sullivan and Albert succeed, it could allow them to make a quick transition to the Olympic team in 2028 after the U-20 World Cup in 2027.
