THE WEEKEND FOR AMERICANS ABROAD was once again dominated by the story of who wasn’t able to play because it generally is a list of the best American players in the game. Instead of it shrinking, that list grew. Ahead of the international window, that is not a good sign but it also means exploring the entire pool as the “next man up” mentality will need to prevail.

Coming into this weekend, we knew Christian Pulisic was improving but still out. Giovanni Reyna, meanwhile, is likely not going be back until after the international window. Now, on top of that, you must add Tyler Adams who was unable to go for Leipzig in a blowout win over Hertha BSC.

On top of that, many national team players had mixed outings this weekend ranging from limited minutes, to average, to poor. That would include John Brooks, Weston McKennie, Josh Sargent, and Konrad de la Fuente.

That’s the bad news from a U.S. national team perspective – which is the most important perspective now with the October qualifiers on the near horizon.

The good news is that in places where there are questions, other players are emerging as answers – both domestically and abroad. Tim Weah had his best shift in 2021 for Lille on Saturday and it couldn’t have come at a better time. Brenden Aaronson was strong along on Saturday and other options in MLS like Jesus Ferreira are also pushin in attacking areas.

Jordan Pefok along with Gyasi Zardes and Daryl Dike in MLS this weekend alleviated some concerns over Josh Sargent.

The injury to Tyler Adams is a massive concern. With Tyler Adams potentially out, the number options in the deeper midfield positions who are also committed to defense are limited. McKennie and Kellyn Acosta can cover for a bit, but in a three-game window, there will need to be more.

The biggest story from this weekend, however, is the excellent run many of the central defenders had. Yes, John Brooks didn’t have a good game for Wolfsburg – but just about everyone else did. Matt Miazga was the heart of the Deporitivo Alaves defense which took down Atletico Madrid. Mark McKenzie was excellent for Genk. Chris Richards was key to Hoffenheim handing Brooks and Wolfsburg its first loss of the season. Tim Ream has been steady for Fulham. In MLS, Miles Robinson and Walker Zimmerman have done well.

There is a lot of ground to cover and here is what we saw on the field from Americans abroad.

Coming into Saturday, Deportivo Alaves had yet to earn a point through five games in La Liga. It was understandable that few gave the squad any chance against an Atletico Madrid that is among the best in Spain right now.

But Alaves went out and pulled off a stunning 1-0 upset at home and New Jersey native Matt Miazga started and went the distance in a very impressive outing. He played a very active role in the backline and was instrumental in keeping the clean sheet.

Matt Miazga: raw # for Alaves in 1-0 win vs Atletico Madrid90 mins31 touches15/17 passing9 clearances2/2 long balls5/6 duals won5/5 aerials #USMNT

Miazga will be a close call if he makes the U.S. roster for October with John Brooks, Miles Robison, Chris Richards, Mark McKenzie, Tim Ream, and Walker Zimmerman all in the mix. But this was certainly an effort that will get people’s attention.

Alaves is still in the relegation battle and one win, even a big one, doesn’t mean much. It requires consistent performances, and it remains to be seen if this is the start of positive shift for the club.

For RB Leipzig, here was good news and bad news from an American perspective on Saturday. The good news is that head coach Jesse Marsch finally got the performance from his team he needed in a 6-0 win over Hertha BSC. The team had just one win coming into this game and Marsch needed a convincing win over a poor Hertha team. He got it.

On the flip side, however, Tyler Adams wasn’t able to play in this game for what the club said was a “muscle injury.”

In news that no #USMNT wants to hear/read, Tyler Adams is out of today's Leipzig game vs. Hertha with what the club says is a "muscle issue."

This is obviously a big concern for the U.S. national team that can ill-afford to add Adams to a growing injury situation.

Tim Weah got the start for Lille, and it was an important step as he puts his injury behind him. Against Strasbourg on the road on Saturday, Weah had his best outing in a very long time. The New Yorker lined up as a forward alongside Canada’s Jonathan David and not on the wing.

The defending champions ended up posting a 2-1 win on Strasbourg and Weah had a hand in both of Lille’s goals. He assisted to David in the 23rd minute and then drew a penalty in the 75th minute – which was converted by Ibrahima Sissoko.

Assist m, Weah! the NYC-born Lille connection: Tim Weah to Jonathan David. #USMNT to #CANMNT pic.twitter.com/dTuIUpQJMx

And in-between the two events, Weah suffered a laceration to his head during a collision which forced him to change kits and play with a bandaged head.

Big day for Tim Weah… his best since last season. Assist earlier.. and he draws a penalty here pic.twitter.com/XcqDvAnTnC

With so many key injuries to the U.S. team right now, Weah’s return is welcome news to the U.S. national team staff.

Tim Weah: raw # for Lille in 2-1 away win over Strasbourg90 mins30 touches2 shots5 key passes1 assist1 drawn penalty13/20 passing1/1 crossing0/2 long balls6/9 duels2/3 dribbles1x fouled2/5 duels won- big outing for Weah, who played up top with David and not on wing

Josh Sargent, 21, saw his struggles continue on Saturday for Norwich in a 2-0 away loss to Everton. The St. Louis native got the start up top with Teemu Pukki in a 3-5 2 but wasn’t even able to generate a shot on goal.

With the loss, Norwich remained without a point on the season after six games and now has a -14 goal differential. Yes, the team has had a tough schedule to start the season but frustration must surely be stetting in with the club.

Not all of this is on Sargent. He isn’t getting service. He had 30 touches and he didn’t have a touch inside the attacking box. But he needs to do better getting away from defenders to help himself with service.

It’s crazy to think that there could be an “must win” game this early in the season, but next week 20th place Norwich visits 19th place Burnley. If Norwich lose that one, it sets a very bleak picture.

In the Swiss Super League, Jordan Pefok keeps scoring. On Saturday, the Washington, DC-born forward opened the scoring for BSC Young Boys in a 2-1 win over St. Gallen. He now has nine goals across all competitions so far for Young Boys and has scored in three straight games. That stretch includes the big winner over Manchester United in the Champions League.

His brand of scoring is rather impressive. He rarely beats defenders with the dribble or fires shots from distance. He doesn’t even pass that much. He simply finishes from close range, either by powering past his defender or taking advantage of a mistake (as he did against Manchester United). He needs service, but his skill is that he doesn’t even need that great of service to score. They’re almost never goalazos, but they always count.

His goal against St. Gallen is another example of this.

Goal! Jordan Pefok! His 9th of the season in all competitions for Young Boys. His 3rd straight game with a goal. Young Boys with a 1-0 lead on St Gallen in the 6th minute #USMNT pic.twitter.com/Fs3iPdZ9yr

In the game, he played 70 minutes and was just 6/9 in passing with 19 touches. He won 4/10 duels. He rarely dominates a game but he can always find a moment or two when he’s tough to contain.

On Sunday, Sergino Dest got the start for Barcelona in a 3-0 win over Levante at home. Dest, 20, started at left back in a traditional 4-3-3 formation. He even assisted to Luuk de Jong on the team’s second goal when he cut in and sent a short through-ball to the Dutch attacker.

Really nice assist from Sergino Dest playing on the (brace yourself)… left side for Barcelona #USMNT pic.twitter.com/xQfWVljMWC

Dest had his best performance of the season in this one as he frequently cut inside and served almost as an attacking midfielder. He had 99 touches and had three key passes and created four chances. In total he was 60/65 in passing and was 2/6 in long balls and 2/2 in crosses. Impressively, he won 11/16 duels and was 5/6 in dribble attempts.

Barcelona likely won’t contend for a La Liga title this year but the club has eyes towards the future and if Dest continues to play like this – even on the left – he will show that he is part of the team’s future. This game, however, was against a relegation battling team. This upcoming week sees Barcelona visit Benfica in the Champions League and then visit Atletico Madrid next weekend. We will learn a lot from those two games.

As for Dest, he is the best U.S. player who is healthy now. He’s now heading into an international window where he is going to need to deliver and dominate.

In a battle of two U.S. national team central defenders, Chris Richards and Hoffenheim downed John Brooks and Wolfsburg 3-1 with both Americans going the distance in the win.

As the score would reflect, Richards played well but Brooks had some tough moments.

Richards wasn't at fault for the Wolfsburg opening goal which was a long shot from distance from Ridle Baku.

Brooks, meanwhile, should have done better with Andrej Kramari?'s equalizer as he let a corner kick bounce through the area to Kramaric for an open header.

Regardless, this was a big game from Richards and Hoffenheim which sent Champions-League caliber Wolfsburg to their first loss of the Bundesliga season.

Julian Green, 26, started for Greuther Furth on Friday when it hosted his former club, and perennial Bundesliga champions, Bayern Munich. Green and his team did not have much of a chance in this one as Furth is probably the least talented team in the league while Bayern is the best in Germany and one of the best in the world.

Green did what he could do in this one. He played well and even drew a red card to Benjamin Pavard. Despite playing with a man advantage, Bayern dominated this game.

What was particularly noteworthy about Green is that he played hard, won his duels, defending well. Offensively, he didn’t really do all that much – which was expected.

Julian Green: raw # for Greuther Furth in 3-1 loss to Bayern86 mins36 touches2 shots0 key passes13/18 passing0/6 crossing1/3 long balls4/5 duels0 dribbles2x fouled1/1 tackles3 interceptions- Green very worked hard and did what he could in a very tough assignment.

Greuther Furth hasn’t been able to compete in the Bundesliga and its decision to not upgrade the team over the summer after earning promotion gives the impression the team isn’t serious about staying up. It’s merely hoping for the best. Thus far, that hasn’t worked out. The club has one point from six games and a -12 goal differential.

Green’s best bet is to play hard and perhaps earn interest after the season. The problem is that Furth right now is a tough place to stand out.

There is also the topic of the national team. Will Green return? It’s possibly but it seems unlikely for October.

Amir Richardson, 19, has had an impressive start to this season with Le Havre in France’s Ligue 2. After making his debut in the final game of the 2020/21 season, this is his first full season with the club’s first team. Born and raised in France, Richardson is a duel citizen with the United States through his father, former New York Knicks star guard, Michael Ray Richardson.

On Friday, Richardson – a tall, 6’5” defensive midfielder – earned the start for Le Havre and played the full 90 minutes in a 1-0 away win over Nimes. It is the club’s second win of the week, both of which saw Richardson starting.

Richardson’s numbers were strong defensively. He won his duels and was a physical presence in the midfield to close-down on attackers and disrupt passing lanes. His athleticism helps in this regard.

Richardson still has a lot he needs to work on. He loses the ball too much, his passing isn’t attack oriented, and he doesn’t beat defenders with his dribble too much. For now, however, his impressive defensive presence is very effective in Ligue 2. You can see that he has an upside but it will be a test of his coaches to help him get there.

Yunus Musah, 18, made his first start of the season for Valencia on Saturday when it hosted Athletic Bilbao. The New York-born Musah has seen his minutes increase lately off the bench but starting was at a different level.

Musah ended up going 83 minutes in a quiet performance. As was with his recent games, he seemed to fade due to fatigue and struggle with his defense. He left with Valencia down 1-0 and was not on the field for his club’s stoppage time equalizer.

Musah has a lot of talent but he hasn’t been able to put it all together and be a difference maker yet. Part of this is due to him missing preseason and still getting back into form but it’s also a reminder that, while he has a big upside, he still has a ways to go. He’s still very young, however, and time is on his side.

Brenden Aaronson got the start for Red Bull Salzburg on Saturday on the road at Wolfsberger. The midfielder from New Jersey had a very strong performance and helped pace his team to a 2-0 win. The three points kept Salzburg perfect on the Austrian Bundesliga season with 27 points from nine games. Salzburg was also given a big break in this one as Wolfsberger were reduced to 10 players just a minute before halftime.

Aaronson, 20, had a strong game and what was best thing about his outing is that he was heavily involved. He generally needs to increase his touches and here he had a healthy 66 touches over 89 minutes.

But Aaronson was also very solid with his passing in the No. 10 role. He had three key passes and was 3/5 with his long balls. It was very encouraging to see his aggressive play with 5/8 on his dribbles, which didn’t even include him drawing two fouls.

For the Red Bull pressing style, Aaronson won 10/14 of his duels and forced several turnovers.

Yes, part of this is that Wolfsberger was down to 10 players. But Aaronson was everywhere today and Salzburg is simply on another level in the Austrian Bundesliga.

It was a disappointing result for Fulham on Saturday as the Cottagers played Bristol City to a 1-1 away draw. Fulham should be a contender for promotion but this result sent them to fourth place, despite have thing best goal differential in the league.

Team captain Tim Ream started in central defense and Antonee Robinson was at left back. Fulham had 64% possession in this game and created 20 chances while Bristol City created just eight.

Antonee Robinson covered a ton of ground in this one but had a bit of a mixed outing. He lost a ton of duels and couldn’t beat defenders off the dribble.

His crossing, however, was excellent. He had 6/8 accurate crosses and had five key passes. Robinson is one of the best left backs in the Championship at the moment.

Likewise, Tim Ream was also steady in the back. He was on the ball 108 times and was a steady and reliable distributor of the ball.

Defensively, Fulham are set. This was just a game where its offense faltered.

Joe Scally, 18, has had a great three months. His preseason with Borussia Monchengladbach was strong. He got an opportunity to play at the early part of the season due to injuries, and he simply took advantage of it. After Saturday, he has now played every minute of M’Gladbach’s six games and except for the second game, a 4-0 loss to Bayer Leverkusen where everyone on M’Gladbach was poor, Scally has been very good.

On Saturday, Scally was excellent for M’Gladbach in an impressive 1-0 win over Borussia Dortmund. Scally showed a high level of tactical awareness in his ability to defend. He was steady with the ball and made no major errors. He’s playing with a ton of confidence, and he is showcasing a very high potential ceiling. His ability to tackle aggressively, but not dirty, is noticeable. He’s young and has strong instincts.

As is often the case the numbers only tell part of the story. Scally was more impressive than his numbers let on and he seems like a very good bet to earn his first call-up to the U.S. team for the October qualifiers.

Luca de la Torre, 23, and Heracles made a strong step towards overcoming a slow start to the season and returning towards the midtable in the Eredivisie – where the midtable and lower table are separated by only a few points. The 1-0 win at home over likely relegation battlers RKC Waalwijk was deserved as Heracles was better in nearly every category: 22-5 edge in shots and a 55%-45% advantage in possession.

For his part, Luca de la Torre, 23, did well helping Heracles hold and circulate the ball and keep possession. In 90 minutes, the San Diego native had 73 touches and complete 51/60 of his passes. He was dispossessed just once.

It’s easy to forget that it has only been a year since de la Torre began getting his first regular run of starts at the first-team level after he move the Eredivise from Fulham. Holland has been very good for de la Torre and it has allowed him to showcase his talent. His skillset works well for Heracles and it will be interesting to see where his career unfolds from here. He’s doing well but isn’t a young anymore and his experience is still limited. It will be hard to see him staying at Heracles after this season – but to where? He could be a great fit for some teams and coaches, but not everywhere.

As for the national team, de la Torre has been a player some fans would like to be called-up more. Berhalter brought him into the March camp – which was the earliest really available since it was the first camp since his breakout. The plan was to use him at the Gold Cup but he declined the invite, citing the need to be in preseason at Heracles. His position at the club, however, wasn’t really in danger.

He’s firmly on the bubble, and will likely be for the next few windows. It can go either way.

While none of the American players in Scotland are likely to get a call-up to the national team anytime soon, it was a good weekend for all three.

Christian Ramirez scored and assisted for Aberdeen in a 3-2 loss to St. Mirren on Sunday. It was a disappointing result but the goal from the Californian actually put his team up 2-1 just before halftime. Unfortunately for Ramirez, Aberdeen fell apart in the second half and wasn’t able to earn a result. Ramirez now has three goals in the Premiership and six goals across all competitions.

Also on Sunday, Celtic hosted Dundee United with Cameron Carter-Vickers getting the start for Celtic and Ian Harkes getting the start for Dundee United. Both Americans played well in what was a 1-1 result but it was Harkes who scored the bit 18th minute equalizer for Dundee United to preserve a point.

Harkes, 26, is on a roll right now. He scored the winner last week for Dundee United in a 1-0 win over Dundee FC in a derby win. Today, he scored against Celtic. Earlier in the season, played the full 90 in a 1-0 win over Rangers to end their unbeaten run in the Premiership – winning the title in 2020/21 without a loss.

Carter-Vickers, 23, meanwhile, has 111 touches in this game and was 4/7 with his long balls. He also was 8/10 in winning his duels. Celtic’s problem in this game is that it couldn’t capitalize on its 63%-37% possession edge or its 22-12 advantage in shots. It has six big opportunities to score and only found the back of the next once. Dundee United scored on its only real chance.

Galatasaray has struggled lately and trailed on Sunday to Goztepe 1-0. The Istanbul club rallied for two goals early in the second half and hung on for a 2-1 win. DeAndre Yedlin, 28, went the distance in the win and had a performance that was steady. Defensively he was solid and made no major mistakes, offensively he didn’t have any poor turnovers but was not involved anything too dangerous.

Now in the prime years of his career, Yedlin is fully developed. There were big hopes for him following the 2014 World Cup and while he’s far from “world class” he’s generally a dependable player. Yes, he’ll struggle defensively against Alphonso Davies, but then who wouldn’t? But he’ll execute a proper game plan, he’ll come up big every now and then offensively, and he won’t fluctuate too much in the level of his performances.

Some had hoped that he would be in the Champions League at this stage, but being a steady presence for Galatasary after making 109 Premier League appearances and being a part of successful relegation battles and a successful promotion in the Championship is solid. He’s done well.

For the national team, he’s not going to be the flashy Sergino Dest, but if you need a dependable backup, Yedlin fits that role. It’s also a role that is needed.

Konrad de la Fuente, 20, played the second half for Marseille in a disappointing 3-2 loss at home to Lens. The score was even 2-2 at the half when the Miami area native came into the game.

Unfortunately for de la Fuente, he struggled to get anything going in this one. After a strong start to the season, this was the first time he looked lost. But that is normal for a young player starting in a top five league. The difference between a good young player and a savvy veteran isn’t really quality, its about reliability. How often can a player deliver a solid performance? Will he reduce the number of times he struggles? It was only a matter of time before de la Fuente struggled. Now it will be a test of putting this behind him and not letting it affect his confidence.

De la Fuente had just 11 touches in 45 minutes with 5/7 passing. He was credited with one key pass but for the most part, he was invisible.

Mark McKenzie, 22, went the distance for KRC Genk in a 3-0 win over RFC Searing on Sunday in Belgium’s top tier.

The former Philadelphia Union central defender had a very good outing where he helped preserve the cleansheet. Raw numbers don’t always tell the true story, but they did for McKenzie today.

McKenzie won everything that came his way – whether with a duel, a clearance, a tackle, or an aerial. This was an outing that should keep him in the club’s starting XI.

Genk moved into the top three with the win and is just one point behind Club Brugge.

In Argentina’s Primera, New Jersey-born Alan Sonora, 23, has seen his career surge the past two months in a strong start to the season. He’s been a consistent performer for Independiente and has been one of the team’s key playmakers.

On Sunday, Independiente suffered a tough setback in an ugly 4-1 home loss to Godoy Cruz. Sonora played relatively well despite the loss. In total he was 49/53 passing, 3/6 in his crosses, had three key passes, and was 4/7 in winning his duels.

With the loss, Independiente fell to fifth place. Godoy Cruz moved to eighth place.

Sonora is one of the more interesting American players the past few months. The Argentine league in South American has fallen a bit in recent years but Independiente is still one of the continent’s strongest clubs. For Sonora, being on the radar for the U.S. team is not out of the question, it’s just his rise in form has been recent. He’s a late bloomer and it remains to be seen if he can keep it up.

Uly Llanez, 20, made just his second start of the season for St. Poelten in Austria’s second tier. He had a good day, as did everyone on St. Poelten, in a 4-0 win over Amstetten.

Llanez scored the team’s second goal in the 67th minute, when he finished a pass that gave him a wide-open shot for a goal. It wasn’t just his first goal for St. Poelten, it was his first goal ever for a club at the first-team level.

(Austria, Ascenso) Ulysses Llanez fue titular y anotó gol en la victoria de St. Pölten 4-0 Amstetten. pic.twitter.com/5LX5YYQ0Ly

The best news for Llanez isn’t that he scored, it was that he went a full 90. The big question for him this season was his fitness after a disappointing season in 2020/21 when he left his club Heerenveen in January and didn’t return. After the long layoff, there were many questions about his level and his fitness once it was announced he joined St. Poelten on loan.

Llanez still has a very long way to go to get back to being an interesting prospect with an international future. The second tier in Austria is a very low level and St. Poelten is the second from the bottom in that league. This is a level he needs to make an impact on a regular basis. It’s good news he scored but it’s way too soon to draw any sort of conclusions that this is the start of him on the ascent.

Owen Otasowie did not even make the traveling roster for Club Brugge so he did not make the bench in Friday’s 1-1 draw with Oud-Heverlee Leuven. It’s been a rough start for Otasowie since transferring to the Belgian champs. The reports are that he has not played well in reserve or practice matches. The fact he was not included suggest those reports are accurate.

Staying in Belgium’s top tier, Chris Durkin started for St. Truiden on Saturday and played 56 in a 2-1 away win over Standard Liege. The Richmond, VA native was subbed out after his team equalized and was not on the field for the winning goal. Sam Vines will remain out injured for a while and did not take part in Royal Antwerp’s 2-1 win over Union St. Gilloise.

In La Liga, Matthew Hoppe was an unused substitute for Mallorca in a 3-2 home loss to Osasuna on Sunday.

In Spain’s Segunda, Shaq Moore continues to have a tough start to the season since rejoining Tenerife following winning the Gold Cup with the U.S. national team. Minutes have been hard for him to come by, and he was an unused sub on Friday in a 3-1 away loss to Almeria in Spain’s second tier.

In Portugal’s top tier, Alex Mendez was an unused substitute for Vizela in a 0-0 draw vs. Portimonense. On Monday, Reggie Cannon will be lucky to make the bench for Boavista when they host Estoril.

In the Bundesliga on Saturday, Timothy Chandler got a rare start for Eintracht Frankfurt and played a full 90 in a 1-1 draw with Cologne. He suffered a laceration to the head but was able to finish the match. Head coach Pellegrino Matarazzo and Stuttgart played Bochum to a 0-0 away draw.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Ryan Malone was an unused substitute for Hansa Rostock in a 2-0 home loss to Schalke on Saturday.

On Friday in Germany's 3.Liga, Terrence Boyd played a full 90 and scored for Hallescher FC in a 3-2 win over Magdeburg. NO CP, Steffen unused

In Serie A, Weston McKennie was an 82nd minute substitute for Juventus on Sunday for a 3-2 win over Sampdoria. It was 3-1 when he entered. He had just eight touches but was only 1/6 in his passing. He did manage to win all three of his duels. In the Roma derby, Bryan Reynolds was not on the matchday roster for Roma in a 3-2 loss to Lazio.

Gianluca Busio and Venezia will host Torino on Monday in Venice.

In Serie B, Andrija Novakovich played the final 18 minutes for Frosinone in a 0-0 away draw against Reggina. It was his first appearance of the season after surgery in the summer.

In France’s Ligue 1, Nicholas Gioacchini was an 88th minute sub for Montpellier in a 2-0 loss away to Paris St. Germain. The Kansas City-born Gioacchini did not even register a touch in his limited time. Erik Palmer-Brown was not in the roster for Troyes in a 1-1 draw with Angers on Sunday.

In the Championship, Duane Holmes played the final 26 minutes for Huddersfield in a 1-0 away loss to Swansea City. Ethan Horvath was an unused sub for Nottingham Forest in a 1-1 draw with Millwall.

In League One, Charlie Kelman was an unused sub for Gillingham in a 1-1 away draw with Oxford United. Lynden Gooch was injured and out of action for Sunderland in Saturday's 1-0 win over Bolton.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, Thomas Roberts was an unused substitute for Austria Klagenfurt in a 4-0 away win over SCR Altach.

In Turkey’s top tier, Tyler Boyd started for Rizespor but was ineffective over his 63 minutes in a 3-0 loss to Istanbul Basaksehir on Sunday. Rizespor has just a single point from seven games and sits in last place while also having a -12 goal differential. Haji Wright played 86 minutes for Antalyaspor in a 1-0 win over Yeni Malatyaspor on Saturday but was not on the field for Antalyaspor’s 89th minute winner.

In the Danish Super Liga, Emmanuel Sabbi played the full 90 and scored a 62nd minute goal in a 1-1 away draw with Viborg. Christian Cappis played the final 18 minutes for Brondby in a 2-1 win over Aalborg BK.

Det var et tæt opgør mod Viborg FF, og vi tager et enkelt point med hjem til Odense, efter Emmanuel Sabbi igen scorede! ??????????#obdk #sldk #vffob pic.twitter.com/wBCFJe0DFJ

In Hungary's top tier NB I, reigning champs Ferencvaros defeated Ujpest 3-1 with former Seattle Sounder Henry Wingo going the distance in the win.

In Israel’s Premier League, Kenny Saief had two assists for Ashdod in a 2-0 win over Beitar Jerusalem. It was Ashdod’s first league win of the season.

In Argentina, Joel Sonora was out injured for Banfield in Saturday’s 2-0 win over Atletico Tucuman.

In Brazil’s Serie A, Johnny Cardoso was an unused sub for Internacional in a 2-0 win over Bahia.
