AS ONE OF THE AMERICAN players who has moved overseas this summer, Auston Trusty has been settling into his starting role at Birmingham City nicely. After being sold from Colorado last winter to Arsenal, but then subsequently loaned back to Colorado through July, it was known he would move to Europe in the summer. But a loan was always in the cards and soon after he arrived in England, it was announced that he was being sent to Birmingham City on a season-long loan.

Trusty, 24, was able to play in the final two preseasons games for Birmingham City and it was enough to earn the starting job on the left side of a three-man backline, which was the same role and formation he played in Colorado.

Since then, Trusty has played every minute of Birmingham City’s first seven Championship games this season. Trusty points out that his transition the Blues has gone more smoothly than any of his previous club integrations dating back to when he was a young Philadelphia homegrown trying to break into the Union.

“I didn't know what to expect,” Trusty told ASN from England. “I kind of thought guys would be a little bit rough, not really want to talk me, not want to have anything to do with me because I am fighting for a spot, I'm an American – so they wouldn't respect me… But honestly, coming in the situation, being with Arsenal and here, everyone was so nice, so friendly, so welcoming, which kind of took me by shock.”

“Even when I was in Philadelphia, there was an adjustment for me as a younger player on that team,” he added. “People weren't as friendly, people weren't that way. I was expecting it to be like that here or worse... But in the end, we're here for a reason, we're here to win.”

Things at Birmingham City have been mixed. The club has had a poor start with just five points from seven games – good for 22nd place in the 24-team league. Defense has not been the team’s problem as the club has conceded just eight goals. The poor start has come the team’s meager four goals from seven games.

But his integration into the first team has not just gone well within the team, he has also become a fan favorite despite only being at the club on loan. The club’s supporters have been loud with “USA” chants when he plays well, and he has earned accolades for his efforts.

“I feel like everyone here is my family - and they are my first initial family in England,” Trusty explained. “I think the fans respects a player who strives to do well and gives his all. The fans have been a huge part. The guys on the team, the organization all make me feel at home but the fans chanting "USA, USA" - you just want to fight for them, you just want to do your all.”

Birmingham manager John Eustace has been quick to praise Trusty as well.

"Auston has been brilliant, his attitude is different class, he has stood up to the plate,” Eustace said. “He wants to learn. We are very fortunate to have him here."

If you haven’t heard, Auston Trusty is absolutely smashing it for Birmingham City so far in the Championship.The American centre back joined Arsenal during January last season & was sent out on loan this summer.Keep it up, @austheboss3!???????? #afc pic.twitter.com/3G5ICuf4Hz

Part of what has helped make Trusty’s transition to the English game gone well, so far, was the coaching he received in Colorado. Knowing that the move was approaching, the staff with the Rapids wanted to work extensively with Trusty to help ensure his success in England.

Trusty’s path to this point started in when he joined the Philadelphia Union’s academy in 2011 after growing up in nearby Media, Pennsylvania. In 2016, he opted to sign a homegrown deal instead of attending college at the University of North Carolina. By 2018 he was a starter with the Union in central defense alongside current U.S. international Mark McKenzie. At the end of the 2019 season, he was traded to the Colorado Rapids.

“Playing in MLS and plus playing for the national teams, I was really prepared for this move and my career over here in England,” Trusty said. “There are some good players in MLS, there's good players coming to MLS and good player who are up and coming in MLS. So overall I feel great. I feel like I can play. Coming over here, it's more the mental side. You're like can I play here?...Playing wise, I think in MLS, when you're up there, you can play overseas. It's more of the mental side of the game.”fr

“At Colorado, they were really helpful in getting me prepared mentally and also physically and just how I approach every little aspect of my game, getting ready for this step,” Trusty stressed. “They did a great job.”

When it was announced last winter that Trusty had signed for Arsenal, it raised eyebrows in American soccer circles. Trusty had never been capped by the U.S. team and was never even named an MLS all-star.

When asked, Trusty said he was not concerned about being a consistently unsettled “loan army” player nor was he worried that he bit off more than he could chew in going to a club that size and insists that he believes in himself that he can eventually break into the prestigious North London club.

“Being a player with Arsenal - you can't not factor that in,” Trusty said. “They are one of the biggest clubs, if not the biggest club in the world. I back myself. I believe myself. There were other offers on the table but when they came in the picture, that's a dream club for any kid in the world. It was kind of a no brainer.”

It is also easy to see why big clubs, such as Arsenal, were interested in Trusty. He is highly athletic, he has impressive size at 6’4” tall, and he is naturally left-footed. He also was accomplished in MLS after leading Philadelphia to the playoffs in 2018 and a run to the U.S. Open Cup final. In 2021, he helped Colorado finish first in the Western Conference regular season.

As a youth player, he was also highly regarded. He is part of a limited group of players that has made the rosters for both the U-17 and U-20 World Cups in 2015 and 2017, respectively. In being part of those teams, he has been teammates with some of the top American players of this generation (Christian Pulisic, Tyler Adams, Josh Sargent, Luca de la Torre, Haji Wright, Brandon Vazquez, Cameron Carter-Vickers, Erik Palmer-Brown, and others).

While he was called up to the full national team last winter for a friendly against Bosnia & Herzegovina, he did not play and is still awaiting his first cap. But getting back into the national team with many of his friends and former youth teammates is a big source of motivation for Trusty. Even if he is not part of the World Cup team in Qatar, he will still be in his prime throughout the entire next cycle.

“I think about it all the time,” Trusty said. “Obviously, that's the goal. Every person's goal should be to play the World Cup and play for their national team. I think about every single day. I'm just trying to do whatever it takes to maximize my opportunity and maximize the potential to be in the squad.”

For now, Trusty insists he simply grateful and excited to be on his current journey (“Being over here, that's what you dream when you're a kid,” Trusty said) and he enjoys life both on the field and off the field. He has adapted to many of the cultural differences such driving on the opposite side of the road and now he exploring more. He has an apartment he likes and a bank account and for him, it is now “starting to feel like home.”

But he is also really appreciating seeing all of the Americans throughout England. Earlier in the week he played against Sargent, his former U.S. U-20 teammate. But his time in MLS and with U.S. teams has seen him cross paths with so many Americans who are now in England.

For Trusty, that has been a source of pride.

“We all keep in touch because in the end, we are all playing football. Our lives are a bit hectic but every football relationship in a sense is like: I'll see you when I see you. But the next time you see them, it's like you saw them yesterday… It's so cool to see that we're really over here doing our things in one of the best football countries in the world. Playing against them, it’s like: I'm proud of you, but also I want to kick your ass. It's a mixture of feelings but after the game it's more like saying it's so good to see you.”
