THE MLS WILDCARD play-in games took place on Wednesday night without much dramatics as both home teams, Chicago and Portland, won their games with relative ease. In Europe, there was a ton of midweek games to break down from Wednesday and Thursday – as well as some news that is both good and bad.

For now, let’s start in the windy city.

The first MLS play-in game was for the Eastern Conference’s final playoff spot as Chicago hosted Orlando.

This game was not close. From the opening minute, Chicago was in control of the game. Still, it wasn’t until the 48th minute when Brian Gutierrez scored the opening goal before Hugo Cuypers scored in the 57th and 67th minutes to put it out of reach. Orlando added a meaningless tally in stoppage to make the game seem closer.

For Chicago, the team continues to remain in outstanding form over the last six weeks. Gregg Berhalter has his team hitting their potential. Specifically, Gutierrez who has reached his top level. Gutierrez has always had the tools to be a really good player but never was able to put it together – until now. He has found a consistent final ball that has been lacking and now he is one of the most dangerous players on the field.

GUTI GETS OUR FIRST OF THE @Audi #MLSCUPPLAYOFFS! ???? #cf97 pic.twitter.com/rwFF0MfoAS

Gutierrez was the Man of the Match in this game as he scored the opening goal, hit the post twice, and was always on the front foot.

The Supporters Shield-winning Philadelphia Union should be concerned for their coming matchup against Chicago. The Fire are much better than a typical eight-seed right now. But overall, it was nice to see enthusiasm back with the Fire organization.

As for Orlando, it was a disappointing end to a disappointing season. The team had a lot more potential than a ninth-place finish and an easy ouster in the play-in game. The team got a lot of production of out of its designated players, but defensively the team was a mess. At the end of the season when the games become more important, Orlando won just once in its final 10 games across all competitions.

Oscar Pareja will likely survive this, but the team will be under a lot of pressure next season to be one of the better teams in the Eastern Conference.

Ultimately, this game went as expected. Chicago was playing well down the stretch and Orlando wasn’t. The fact Chicago hosted this game made them even more of a favorite. The result and the performances of both teams was predictable.

There were hopes that this game was going to be more competitive than it turned out. Real Salt Lake was playing away from home, but seemed to have the talent to match up well against a Portland team that had won just once in its last 10 games.

But Portland played its best game in months and jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the first half with two goals from Felipe Mora (who hadn’t scored since July). In the second half, Real Salt Lake stepped it up but were wasteful.

MAKE THAT TWO FOR MORA ????? pic.twitter.com/pEAaZkt5Sx

Diego Luna was extremely frustrated at the end of the game and the U.S. national team playmaker played well. But Real Salt Lake needed more players to step up – and that never happened.

Looking ahead, Portland now gets to face San Diego, who have impressed all throughout their inaugural season but now have questions with Chucky Lozano’s issues that have caused friction within that team.

Portland might be in a good place to surprise.

Cameron Carter-Vickers injured himself late in Celtic’s 2-1 win over Austria’s Sturm Graz on Thursday. The result is not good as it is feared he ruptured his Achilles and will be out until at least March. Typically, most players who rupture their Achilles are out for much longer.

The injury news for Cameron Carter-Vickers is not good after yesterday’s Europa winBrendan Rodgers: "He looks like he's done his Achilles, which could be anywhere between three and five months…We just await confirmation of that. It's not great news.”#USMNT… pic.twitter.com/hvZEJXB0o9

It would be surprising if this didn’t end his hopes of making the 2026 World Cup team.

It has been a nightmare of a season for Celtic, which are behind Hearts in the Premiership table and crashed out of the Champions League in qualifying.

Overall, it’s been a tough season for Scottish teams in Europe.

As for players in the U.S. national team pool, the current injury list is long: Carter-Vickers, Christian Pulisic, Antonee Robinson, Jack McGlynn, Malik Tillman.

Real Madrid defeated Juventus at home 1-0 on Wednesday. Weston McKennie got the start and played all 90 minutes. Despite the loss, McKennie was very good in this one and was the most dangerous Juventus player in the first half.

Juventus has hit a very rough spot, however, and hasn’t won in seven games across all competitions. While McKennie is improving and playing well, fans and the local media will be negative towards most Juventus players until this turns around.

Tim Weah started at left back for Marseille and played 67 minutes in a 2-1 loss to Sporting CP. His ability to contribute became limited after Marseille was reduced to 10 players just before halftime. But he left the game with Marseille up 1-0 and did the best he could. Marseille has a lot to play for these days at they sit atop the Championship.

It was a frustrating day at the office for Folarin Balogun who started for Monaco in a 0-0 draw at home with Tottenham. Balogun, who is playing very well over the past two months, missed several golden chances to score. He finished with four shots, with three forcing saves. But overall, he will likely feel correctly that he should have buried at least one of them.

Yunus Musah remained glued to the bench for Atalanta’s disappointing 0-0 draw with Slavia Prague in Italy. Musah is at a dangerous point in the season where it remains unclear if Atalanta rate him or are even considering they option to buy on his loan. Right now, it seems like a long shot.

Despite his history with the USMNT where he has played in huge games, his spot on the 2026 World Cup team is not secure. There is simply too much competition in the midfield.

Meanwhile, Timmy Chandler was mercifully an unused substitute for Eintracht Frankfurt in a 5-1 loss at home to Liverpool.

As mentioned, Cameron Carter-Vickers and Celtic won over Sturm Graz 2-1 in an unconvincing manner. Now Carter-Vickers is out for an extended time due to an apparent Achilles injury. Auston Trusty hasn’t played much recently, but he should be forced into action. With the win, Celtic has a fighting position to advance with four points from three games.

Lyon defeated Basel 2-0 in France in the Europa League. Tanner Tessmann stared but departed at halftime with Lyon up 1-0. He played well and his substitution appeared to be made as part of a rotation. Lyon also must be concerned with Ligue 1 play and climbing back into the Champions League positions. The club hosts Strasbourg on Sunday.

Lyon has a perfect nine points from three games in the Europa League.

Tanner Tessmann looking snazzy as he arrives for Lyon’s Europa League game against BaselThe former FC Dallas midfielder in the starting lineup. Kickoff minutes away #USMNT pic.twitter.com/QDoDrHmuXF

Also in the Europa, Erik Palmer-Brown is working his way back from an injury but was an unused sub for Panathinaikos is a 3-1 away loss to Eredivisie leaders Feyenoord.

In the Conference League, Dante Polvara played the second half of Aberdeen’s 6-0 loss away to AEK Athens. This season has been a nightmare for Scottish clubs in Europe. Aberdeen has 0 points from two games in the Conference League while Rangers have 0 points from three games in the Europa league.

Leon Flach played 72 minutes at defensive midfielder for Jagiellonia Bialystok in a solid 1-1 away draw with France’s Strasbourg. It was a good result for the Polish club that has four points from two games. Aziel Jackson was an unused sub for Bialystok.

Chris Richards did not play for Crystal Palace in an upset 1-0 loss at home to AEK Larnaca. Palace appears to be focusing primarily on the Premier League now.

Sheffield Wednesday fans have been boycotting owner Dejphon Chansiri and refusing to turn up. Today the fans won, but at a cost as the club was placed into administration and docked 12 points. Currently in last place, that likely guarantees relegation. But to fans, it was worth it. The mood is positive.

A message from the players to all Wednesdayites ???? ???? pic.twitter.com/Q2IrA40wu1

But Sheffield Wednesday’s starting goalkeeper is American Ethan Horvath. The 30 year old Colorado native has had a wild ride to his career, and this will be his second straight relegation after last season with Cardiff.

He is only at Wednesday on loan from Cardiff, but with Cardiff sitting atop League One, he likely isn’t missed.

At this stage of his career, he might be running out of options in Europe.
