THE UNITED STATES MEN’S national team is through to the Gold Cup finals after a narrow and hard-fought 2-1 win over Guatemala. Diego Luna scored twice inside of the first 15 minutes, and it seemed as if the USMNT was set for a comfortable win. But Guatemala was on the front foot for the remainder of the game, and it forced the U.S. to hold on and scrape out a narrow win.

U.S. head coach Mauricio Pochettino stuck with the same starting lineup that snuck past Costa Rica in Sunday’s shootout victory. But the U.S. team had far less control of the game than in the win over Costa Rica and even conceded 20 shots, while being outshot 20-12.

But the U.S. team got the big moments from Diego Luna, made some important defensive plays, and got a bit lucky.

Here are some thoughts on it all:

Few American players have increased their stock as much as Diego Luna has over the past year. Just the year before he was left off the Olympic team. Now he’s earned the trust of Mauricio Pochettino as he the new manager looks to build up the USMNT after a tough year.

Luna took advantage of January camp as much as any player could when he played on after breaking his nose and then had an important assist. Since then, he has only continued to pop up in big moments.

“Kudos to Guatemala,” Luna said of the game. “They performed and had a great atmosphere but scoring early really gave us a little boost. Getting two early goals allowed the team to get confidence but we just have to deal with having that lead a little bit better. Other than that, it was good.”

?? WARNING ?? This Diego Luna goal is not for the faint of heart. ???? pic.twitter.com/WEFKsAkMU2

“I'm just having fun,” he added. “I'm just doing what I do and it's just another soccer game. I'm going out there, performing, and doing what I love to do. It's awesome that it is helping a team get to a final but it's just another game for me and I am happy to do it.”

But his performance on Wednesday night was his most important as it put the USMNT back into a CONCACAF final. If not for him, the U.S. team’s run at the Gold Cup might have been over. But on the opening goal, he was part of the build-up and the was prepared to pounce on the rebound. Then on the second goal, he moved through the defensive with fine skill and finished with class. He then also helped to set up the U.S. team’s best chance in the second half.

Luna brings confidence and aggression to the U.S. team’s attack, and this is what Pochettino has wanted. Safe to say, he is on the World Cup team next year.

And Real Salt Lake fans need to enjoy him before he’s gone.

Diego Luna delivered the ? dream ? start tonight! pic.twitter.com/gL3L2iNPtx

Tim Ream is the most veteran player on the USMNT by far having played in the 2011 Gold Cup under head coach Bob Bradley. He has seen many generations of young players break into the team but has been very impressed by what he’s seen from Malik Tillman and Diego Luna.

Headed that way to Houston. ???????????????? pic.twitter.com/lH3MR8ymGe

Specifically with Tillman, he notices total improvement from his first few years when he struggled to get his club form to translate to the national team. Now he is finally making it work. Then with Luna, it is his confidence that affects not just his own game, but with others.

“Just the way those two fight with and without the ball is something that I haven't seen from two guys in a while,” Ream said of Tillman and Luna. “They have been such a joy to play with.”

“I think about Malik in recent years, I don't even recognize him. He's all over the place - in a good way, with and without the ball, he's physically strong, working hard for the team. That first game where he scores two goals, it's like it set something off in him. It's fun to see.”

“Diego is not fazed by anything,” Ream said. “He wants to get on the ball and make things happen. I think he'll tell you he was fortunate to be in the right place and the right time for the first goal. The second goal is all him, the way he gets the ball at his feet and makes the defender miss and puts in a perfectly placed shot on goal to score his second. He just has that chip on his shoulder that is like this is unapologetically me. Just get me the ball and I'm going to make things happen and let's drag the rest of us into the fight and get after it. It is so nice to see from him.”

Guatemala’s performance was admirable. Despite falling behind 2-0, the team responded very well and refused to get rolled over. It was also essentially a home game for Guatemala, right in St. Louis. Pochettino even commented that it felt like he was in Guatemala and that their support boosted the team.

This has been typical for the U.S. team over several decades when it often felt like visitors in its own stadiums – and not just against Mexico. But the effects of this type of support certainly helps teams on the field and gives them an intensity edge. The U.S. had skill, but Guatemala’s intensity carried them.

Guatemala pulls one back to make it 2-1! ????????The crowd in St. Louis is loving it! ????? pic.twitter.com/Vcealz5D4C

“We knew what it was when we signed up - it's CONCACAF,” Chris Richards said after the game. “We had to get ready for this. We understood that it might not be the prettiest soccer, but you have to be able to beat their physicality. That's what we did.”

On another note, Guatemala continues to benefit from MLS and the Guatemalan-American community. Rubio Rubin and Aaron Herrera are two former U.S. youth internationals and full-scale professionals. But Guatemala’s goal was scored by CF Montreal teenager Olger Escobar.

After the first 15 minutes, the trio of Tyler Adams, Sebastian Berhalter, and Malik Tillman struggled to hold the ball or win it back. U.S. possessions typically had to start once the defense won the ball back or cleared it from danger. The U.S. team needed to win the ball in midfield or in Guatemala’s half, but was unable to do so.

Adams is important to this team but hasn’t been at his best in recent games. Berhalter is small physically and doesn’t thrive in defensive situations. He actually began the game very well with winning his duels, but tired noticeable in the second half.

The big issue now heading into the final against Mexico (which defeated Honduras 1-0 on Wednesday). Pochettino has elected to go with the same starting lineup twice in the span of two days. On top of that, his substitution plans have been slow. Against Costa Rica, Pochettino didn’t make any subs until the 78th minute. Against Guatemala, he made one sub in the 58th minute (Brenden Aaronson for Luca de la Torre), but again waited until the 77th minute for the other subs.

Looking ahead to Mexico, will Pochettino feel comfortable with the same lineup three times in a Sunday-Wednesday-Sunday round of games? That is asking a lot. If so, what changes?

What an effort from start to finish. pic.twitter.com/KXPbJPDlVv

This is going to be a true test for the U.S. team and far more than the Gold Cup is on the line. A win for the U.S. team could fully turn the page on the Nations League in terms of regional dominance and it will also put a lot of time past the Copa America.

Even more so, a successful final will also make the USMNT more competitive, which should benefit the entire pool. The players who were missing from this tournament will have to raise their games as everyone on the Gold Cup team (especially those who started most games) will have given Pochettino a favorable impression.

But Mexico will be very tough. El Tri didn’t have to go through the USMNT at the Copa America or the last Nations League. This is something that both teams want one year out from the World Cup. A win would give a significant boost of momentum.
