THE EUROPEAN PRESEASON rolls on throughout most of the continent and it can be an important time for players. Analysis of these games can be hard because sometimes opponents are weak and sometimes teams play games in such quick succession that there is heavy squad rotation, making it tough to determine a player’s standing.

But the preseason is now at an advanced stage given the World Cup later this year is making for an earlier start to the season.

So here are a few observations about what I’ve seen over the past week.

It’s tough to label a 21-year-old as a comeback player, but Owen Otasowie is trying to do just that. Last year was an absolute disaster after his transfer from Wolves to Club Brugge. Otasowie didn’t play a single game and it was clear his mind was elsewhere. He failed in reserve team games. He was homesick and granted permission to return home to England. He didn’t report back with the team in January. He posted pictures of himself driving expensive cars in the Middle East during the season. He also then started a concierge service. There were reports that Brugge was trying somehow to unload him, but couldn’t.

Otasowie is now back with Brugge and playing in preseason. Not only that, he’s playing well for the Belgian champs. He’s even showing a willingness to play defense.

This is a tough one to breakdown because there is a seemingly volatile personality at play, but also one with talent. Brugge is probably proceeding with caution and is not relying heavily on him. It’s going to be near impossible to unload him for any real value since many teams are not going to want to take the risk he checks out.

It will be great for him to turn it around and get his career on track. He has talent, but staying involved long-term is going to be the trick. It’s not about him having a good preseason or even a good single season. The early returns this preseason are promising but there is no way to accurately predict how this is going to go. It’s all guesswork.

As for the national team, it’s also about a wait and see approach. There isn’t a realistic scenario where Otasowie competes for a spot on the World Cup team, so there isn’t any rush. Otasowie is actually Olympic eligible, so perhaps that is a level he could participate next year and work his way up – assuming he is still playing and playing well. Those assumptions are never guaranteed.

There was an interesting report out of Spain this week. Yunus Musah will be playing under new manager and former Italian great Gennaro Gattuso. The gist of the report is that despite Valencia needing wingers, Gattuso will keep Musah playing as a central midfielder – where he wants to play and where he feels he is best.

This is huge as it shows Musah’s importance to Gattuso and it shows that Musah is making a good impression. It seems ripe for Musah to make huge steps in his career this season.

In good news for Americans, Gio Reyna is back to training with Borussia Dortmund. Last year was a lost season for Reyna, 19, after he suffered hamstring injuries followed by two reinjuries.

Gio's back!! ?? pic.twitter.com/91fN5j5lFC

The reinjuries were worse than the initial injury. Mentally, it makes injuries harder to overcome when there is the looming fear of reinjury. Dortmund will want to get him back on the field, but it still might be a slow process to having him be a regular starter.

On Saturday, Josh Sargent started for Norwich City in a 2-2 draw with Jahn Regensburg of the 2.Bundesliga. The American forward played a role in the first Norwich goal when his header forced a save which the keeper deflected onto the crossbar. Todd Cantwell was there to put in the rebound.

We're level!A fine flowing move sees Sargent meet a Rashica cross. His header is tipped onto the bar by the goalkeeper, with Cantwell alert to nod home the rebounds!???? #SSVJ 1-1 #NCFC ???? (18)

Sargent will continue to play for Norwich, but expectations are high with Norwich that they can continue their “yo-yo” status of bouncing back up to the Premier League after last season’s relegation. Of course, that means more pressure on Sargent to score as Teemu Pukki is beginning to age and having another 20-plus goals in the Championship might not be possible. Sargent has never had a season like that at any level. This will be a revealing season for Sargent because for the first time, he’s not on a team that will battle for relegation. He will have talent surrounding him (based on the quality of the league).

Speaking of Norwich forwards, Sebastian Soto is not one of them. While he is under contract with Norwich, he’s looking to get out (or the club is looking to get him out). Last season saw two unproductive loans with Porto B and Livingston. Now he’s on trial with Barnsley of League One, and his test game on Saturday was with the club’s U-23 team.

Not sure what the next step is for Soto. Just last year in 2021 he was getting caps with the U.S. national team and was selected over Jeremy Ebobisse for a spot on the U.S. U-23 team. Now he’s looking for anyone who would take him.

It should serve as a lesson in attrition in what to expect from a youth national team. The 2019 U.S. U-20 team looked outstanding and played well. But many seemingly “top” players are still struggling. It’s a reminder that it is a numbers game. You need a lot of prospects for a few to pan out. As with youth teams, many of those cut will turn out to be the best players from an age group (Brenden Aaronson and Daryl Dike were among those who did not make that 2019 team).

Joe Scally appears to be in line to compete well for a starting job at Borussia Monchengladbach. Last season, the Long Island fullback played in 30 games for Borussia Monchengladbach. On Saturday, he started at right back in a 6-0 friendly win over 1860 Munich. He played the first half as the team changed the XI entirely at half.

Scally’s season started of well last year but then he came back to earth a bit in the second half. He remains a top prospect as a young fullback but for him, it will be settling down in one position and continuing to grow. By the looks of it, he will continue to play. But it comes down to being better and more consistent this season.

Arsenal defeated Nurnberg 5-3 on Saturday with Matt Turner making his first preseason appearance for Arsenal. The New Jersey native played the first half and allowed two goals.

The first goal Turner could have done better, but the criticism in England, as usual, is over the top.

Tursner will have plenty of chances to prove his case.

Sam Rogers is quietly having a great year. Back in February, Rogers moved from Hamkam to Rosenborg and the traditional Norwegian power shelled out approximately $1 million for him. Since then, Rogers has been a starter for Rosenborg this season. On Sunday, Rogers notched a hat trick. That is a highly unusual case for a defender. Rogers is left-footed defender who mostly plays as a left-footed central defender but can also play as a left back as well.

In a 3-2 win over Jerv on Sunday, Rogers was on fire after scoring all three of his team’s goals.

Rogers is not close to the national team now, but he should be an excellent candidate for a January call-up.

Luca de la Torre has signed for Celta Vigo in Spain’s La Liga. This was a bit of a surprise to me as I figured the teams most interested in de la Torre were going to be in the Eredivisie as they were the teams who saw him regularly. But this is a good move for him as it is a huge step up and one that should play to his strengths. RC Celta obviously did their homework in scouting de la Torre.

There will be competition for de la Torre to earn minutes but RC Celta does not have a deep roster at the moment and this preseason he should have the chance to play and build his case.

De la Torre’s preseason debut should come this Wednesday when Celta visit Pumas in Mexico.

Recently committed U.S. international Malik Tillman is back at Bayern Munich although that could change quickly as reports out of Scotland have indicated that Rangers are after the German-born American – for a full transfer, not a loan.

That would be a good move for Tillman who is not in a good position at Bayern. As opposed to starting a loan army run, he can instead find stability to grow his career. Rangers is a place where he can expect to have a chance at playing time and then eventually get sold.

Tillman probably has a small chance at making the U.S. team to Qatar, but he is in a great position for next cycle and being part of the U-23 Olympic team in 2023 would serve as a great springboard towards having a real chance with the full national team.

With Joe Aribo leaving for Southampton, there is an opening at Rangers for Tillman. Also, with Rangers recent run to the Europa final, Tillman will be joining a team with momentum and the goal of dethroning Celtic.

Terrence Boyd: is now at Kaiserslautern and will bring a ton of success from the 3.Liga into the 2.Bundesliga. They kickoff the season on Friday against Hannover.

Julian Green: Was an occasional starter in the Bundesliga last year for Greuther Furth, which was easily relegated. It is an open question if he will regain his starting position. He was solid in the 2.Bundesliga two years ago. Greuther Furth open their season on Saturday at home vs. Holstein Kiel.

Timothy Tillman: The brother of Malik Tillman, Timothy probably has more of a chance for minutes at Furth this year than Green. The midfielder apparently would like to switch to the United States although there probably isn’t room for him on the U.S. team right now. He could use a strong season to prove his case.

George Bello: Bello is the definition of a U.S. World Cup roster bubble battler. The Arminia Bielefeld left back has started a few of Bielefeld's games but is far from a lock to start. Unless he starts, he is probably not going to Qatar as the U.S. team’s backup to Antonee Robinson. Arminia Bielefeld kickoff their season away to Sandhausen on Saturday.

Ryan Malone: the sturdy Hansa Rostock center back earned a new contract with the club during the offseason and the 2021/22 season was a terrific one for him as he established himself as someone who could thrive in the 2.Bundesliga. It’s been a long climb for the former Springfield College (Division III) Massachusetts native through the lower tiers of Germany. He should be expected to start regularly for Hansa Rostock, which opens the season Sunday at home vs. Heidenheim.

Decisions over the fate for several Americans should be made soon. Based on preseason, loans or transfers look coming.

Matthew Hoppe: is currently back with Mallorca but is in limbo over whether to stay or go. A decision might not be made until the club returns from a preseason Austrian tour.

Nicholas Gioacchini: After the buy-option of his loan to Montpellier was declined last season, Gioacchini is back with cash-starved SM Caen in France’s Ligue 2. He likely won’t remain there and a decision should be coming over his next destination.

Richard Ledezma: is back with PSV Eindhoven after what has been a lost 18 months. He’s still rated by the club but a possible loan is certainly in the cards. Vitesse in the Eredivisie is the most reported destination.

Matt Miazga: The central defender had a tough loan with Deportivo Alaves and is training with Chelsea now. It seems as if a move returning stateside is likely. If Cincinnati can make a big offer, that is the most likely landing spot.

John Brooks: The biggest fish on the market for Americans abroad. It is very surprising he hasn’t landed yet with his level of experience.

Konrad de la Fuente: There has been some reported discussion over loaning him out of Marseille for the upcoming season, but that is not a done deal yet.

Haji Wright: the forward is back training with Sonderjyske but according to reports out of Denmark, it won’t be for long as the interest in the U.S. forward is very high. The club expects a deal soon.

Tyler Boyd: has started a few of the early preseason games with Besiktas but it is hard to see him sticking at the club based on his previous time there and his most recent loans.
