HAPPY FRIDAY everyone. The middle parts of the week about a lot of news, particularly in MLS where the season opener is now just a few days away. But also, there is news abroad and with the U.S. U-17 national team which has qualified for the World Cup.

Let’s get right into it.

The United States U-17 team is through to the World Cup after a wild 5-3 win over Guatemala in Guatemala City. The game was a hard-fought result when the U.S. would have a two goal lead and in three separate times, Guatemala would cut the lead to one goal before the U.S. pulled away with a late goal.

But what was particularly impressive about is that the team showed maturity to respond to the environments of a true CONCACAF road game. The crowd was big and loud, the field was horrible, there were laser pointers. It is an environment that is very uncommon in the U-17 levels anywhere.

While Guatemala played emotionally, the U.S. never crumbled when they were being pressed. It was a real statement with this team.

“It was a very hostile environment and I haven't seen that in a while,” head coach Gonzalo Segares said. “We lived it in Honduras with the U-20s. I still feel that it was even more hostile [on Tuesday night]. And being 16 years old and experiencing that for the first time, I thought that the boys showed incredible compassion, personality. They were not fazed. Through the game, the Guatemalan team energized themselves from the crowd. We were not only playing the 11 players on the field, but also the 12th player - that was a crowd.”

About last night ?? pic.twitter.com/zObz2ZJSdH

“I am extremely proud of the way that they responded every time that Guatemala came back and score a goal,” he added. “They kept staying with our game plan, with a style of play, still brave to play out of the back. And that's how we were able to create a few more of our chances and we were able to put the game away.”

The result is that this team is going to the U-17 World Cup later this year and they will be joined by Mexico, Panama, and Canada. But here are some thoughts on who has impressed me the most from the team.

Keyrol Figueroa: The forward has six goals in five games for the U.S. team. While you always want to be on alert for players at this level who get by on physical development, Figueroa has a lot of skill in addition to his size. He’s been the best player in this tournament so far for any team.

We got a good one brewing! Keyrol Figueroa’s leads the #CU17C with 6 goals ?????? » @FOXSoccerpic.twitter.com/3480IM00Ul

David Vazquez: The Philadelphia Union academy product has been really impressive on the wings, even if he has played more central midfield in his youth career. What I like about him is that he thinks fast and makes quick, smart decisions.

Brian Romero: is technically strong even if he lacks size now. The question long-term becomes what his position is, but for now he is useful.

Cruz Medina: The talented San Jose homegrown has been important to the team’s midfield and has lived up to being one of the team’s most anticipated players at this tournament.

In addition to that trio Columbus Crew product Taha Habroune and Paulo Rudisill of the Galaxy are also two players who have been important to the team’s success thus far.

The United States is favored against Canada and the extra day of rest helps. Canada has qualified for the U-17 World Cup – which is a positive after a tough run of results at the youth levels.

The MLS playoffs have expanded. Instead of the top seven teams in each conference with the top seed earning a bye and all games being single elimination, we have the top nine teams going to the playoffs.

The eighth and ninth place teams, have a one game playoff to get into the first round – to make the first round eight teams. That leg will then be best out of three games – no draws. The conference semifinals, conference finals, and MLS Cup are back to being one game.

The league wants to have more drama at the onset of the playoffs and build momentum heading into the later rounds.

The problem is that the last format was actually well received and was the best in league history. The three game series in the early days of the league typically failed to live up to the drama they hoped to create. That is why they were canned. But this best of three is only for one round.

Major League Soccer Announces Audi 2023 MLS Cup Playoffs Format and Schedulehttps://t.co/HL2MKircFd

It could work but does this devalue the regular season? Certainly - more than before. Finishing first had a lot more meaning because of the bye. Now the top seven teams have byes. But the value in having a home game is still there – especially in the later rounds.

No matter what, the league really must find a playoff format that works and stick with it.

Then there is expansion. Don Garber told the media MLS isn’t going to stop expanding and cites Las Vegas and San Diego as interesting markets. At some point they are going to have to start creating divisions within conferences to maintain rivalries. Is the league too big? It’s hard to say because so many of the expansion teams are doing well and connecting with their cities. That’s great. But there still is the problem of the lack of attachment in too many of the big and original markets – New York, Boston, Chicago, DC. The league needs to put a priority of seeing big crowds in Chicago and New York as it does with St. Louis.

It's not just a matter of the “newness” of it. Philadelphia and Kansas City weren’t always drawing well but they revived themselves. It can be done.

There haven’t been that many Americans in action this midweek

Bill Hamid, 32, recently left DC United and looks ready to start his second attempt at heading abroad. His first attempt with Midtjylland in 2018 did not go well and he quickly returned to DC United. Scottish reports have said that Hamid is finalizing a move to Dundee United. The club sits last in the Scottish Premiership and has lost four in a row. It desperately needs upgrades and Hamid is not technically a transfer because he’s a free agent.

Jordan Pefok came off the bench in the second leg of Union Berlin matchup with Ajax. After a 0-0 result in the first leg, Union Berlin prevailed at home in the second leg 3-1. Pefok played the final 25 minutes but had just 12 touches and was 1/5 in passing. All the goals were scored before he entered the game.

Several Americans are in action today (Friday).

In the Eredivisie: Taylor Booth and FC Utrecht visit Sparta Rotterdam.

In the Bundesliga: Joe Scally and Borussia Monchengladbach visit Mainz

In the Premier League: Tim Ream, Antonee Robinson and Fulham host Wolves

In Ligue 1: Tim Weah and Lille host Brest.

In the Greek Super League: Caleb Stanko and Lamia visit NFC Volos.

In the Danish Superliga: Emmanuel Sabbi and OB visit FC Nordsjaelland.
