THE MLS PLAYOFFS get underway on Wednesday night with the two play-in games for each conference and then the first-round best of three gets started on Saturday.

Decision Day offered what you want. The East was the best drama as Chicago and Montreal laid an egg while Charlotte and the Red Bulls ended their season strong.

It was funny to watch Montreal boss Hernan Losada, after his team lost to Columbus (coached by Wilfried Nancy, Losada’s predecessor) gather with his staff around a screen to watch the Red Bulls hoping they would not win in Nashville, but then walking around in disgust after John Tolkin buried a stoppage time penalty.

Montreal reacts to RBNY scoring. Heartbreaking. pic.twitter.com/v3NlLHFO6l

It’s hard to feel bad for a team resorting to that level of hope after losing 17 games his past regular season. But that’s also part of decision day – teams hoping to back door their way into the playoffs. At least the East saw two teams force their way into the playoffs as Charlotte won three of their last four and the Red Bulls won four of their last five.

The West was nearly as good. Sporting KC deserved to go through after winning three of their last four. San Jose drew their final four games of the season to cling onto the last playoff spot for dear life.

Here are some very quick notes and thoughts about the play-in games

Both teams are playing well heading into the playoffs and both teams forced their way into the postseason with big wins on the last day of the season.

For the Red Bulls, they are not a bad team all around, but it is just such a struggle for them to finish chances. The team seems to be able to generate chances and generally not get outplayed in games, but the finishing is always subpar. The win over Nashville was terrific with John Tolkin’s penalty in stoppage time putting them into the final.

AHHHHHHHHH ADMIN IS GOING NUTS! JMI DOES IT!@Audi I #RBNY pic.twitter.com/tpQuyHbqKf

At this point, it’s beyond hope that they suddenly become a real offensively powerful team. They might find a game where they get lucky, but they’re going to have to defend their way to win games. This team never replaced Lewis Morgan and Dante Vanzier was pretty much a bust. I actually think Troy Lesane has done a great job. The problems with this team are in the front office in acquiring players.

It happens, look at Boca Juniors in the Copa Libertadores which has scored three goals in six games of the knockout rounds (two legs in the Round of 16, two legs in the Quarterfinals, and two legs in the semifinals) but is now in the final after advancing in penalties each time. But that’s a total fluke.

I still think the Red Bulls take this game at home and with a wave of momentum at their back. The Red Bulls ended their season with better wins (at Cincinnati, vs. Toronto, at Nashville) than Charlotte (Toronto, at Chicago, vs. Miami). But there are still ongoing questions about the health of Charlotte forward Karol Swiderski, who left the win over Inter Miami with an injury. If he can’t go, or if he’s not at 100%, it’s going to be very tough for Charlotte.

Last night wasn’t a dream. Witness it all over again ???? pic.twitter.com/9tzfZTc0Hh

But I think the Red Bulls keep their season going a little longer.

Another game that should heavily favor the home team in Sporting Kansas City, which has come up with three impressive wins over their last four games to get to this point. In the last game, Sporting just took it to a desperate Minnesota team right off the bat and ran away with a 3-1 lead.

Other than the fact this is MLS, and it’s always unpredictable, everything here favors Sporting KC. They have a veteran coach in Peter Vermes, they have a nice blend of players, they have a captain in Johnny Russell who is very effective right now leading his team. Most of their struggles come from an awful start to the season in the first 10 games. Since then, they’ve been a solid team in the Western Conference. They also have the designated player in Alan Pulido to get it done.

JOHNNY! RUSSELL!The cap opens the scoring just before the 30 minute mark!Watch #SKCvMIN live now on @AppleTV ???? https://t.co/ZKvjHiCZrS pic.twitter.com/VxT96qSoXP

San Jose got into the playoffs due to a nice run earlier in the season. Luchi Gonzalez has done a good job with San Jose, which was lost in the wilderness of the Matias Almeyda years. They have a direction now, but they’re limping into the playoffs right now.

With Sporting playing at home and with all the momentum, this is an easy pick.
