THE WEEKEND FOR Americans abroad was mixed, we saw usual top players like Pulisic and Richards play well while others like Scally and Balogun impressed amid rocky seasons. Plus we also had young players like Damion Downs have big moments. But there were also concerns as well.

Let’s just get right into it.

Returning to his natural left wing position, Christian Pulisic had a big day for AC Milan scoring two goals in a 5-1 rout over Cagliari. With the performance, Pulisic now has 12 goals and 7 assists in Serie A, and 15 goals and 9 assists across all competitions.

Goal #14 of the season for Christian Pulisic pic.twitter.com/UfJPK4bgN0

Without question, it has been a terrific move for Pulisic to reestablish himself after a chaotic period with Chelsea. Milan will finish the season second and will participate again in the Champions League.

Christian Pulisic:15 goals on the season2nd of the dayMilan 5-1 Cagliari pic.twitter.com/eEWGYWCvrZ

Yunus Musah also went the full 90 for Milan and he helped contribute to the build-up for Pulisic's first goal. Musah showed some positive progressive passing in this game - which is good. Stragely enough, his dribbling wasn't as effective as it normally is because that is his biggest strength as a player. He also needs to read the game better on the defensive side.

The problem for Musah is that he’s still a work in progress as a player. If Milan have a managerial change after the season, things become uncertain for him. He’s not a constant producer like Pulisic. Musah had two assists and no goals this season. There are managers out there who won’t play a player much with stats like that. Musah needs to hope Milan don’t hire someone like that.

The Championship promotion playoffs got underway, and this is a big opportunity for Josh Sargent who has been one of the best players in the league since returning from a four-month absence due to an ankle injury.

But the bad news for Sargent is that things did not go his way in the first leg of the semifinal against Leeds United. Playing at home, Norwich likely needed a win but didn’t get it and settled for a 0-0 draw. Now everything will be on the line in Leeds for Thursday’s second leg.

In the game, Sargent was ineffective. Leeds held him to just three touches in his attacking box. He only had two shots, both headers, and neither were dangerous. He also wasn’t able to do much with his hold up play.

Attention turns to Elland Road ???? pic.twitter.com/KVsqPtlm73

But the worse news came late in the game when Sargent was forced out in the 84th minute with his ankle bothering him. It’s the same ankle which kept him out for four months and the same ankle which forced him to withdraw from the USMNT roster in March. Now it took him off the field in the club’s biggest game of the season – and it was likely bothering him throughout the game.

The good news is that Norwich manager and former USMNT forward David Wagner believes Sargent should be back for the second leg. But the details in the full quote are more concerning in that it sounds almost like wishful thinking given he hadn’t spoken to the medical staff or Sargent.

"He was not able to carry on, obviously," Wagner said of Sargent. "I think he has some problems with the ankle. I haven’t spoken with him or with the medical department. But he’s a tough guy and I’m sure he will be ready for Thursday in a very, very big game."

Chris Richards went the distance for Crystal Palace in a comfortable 3-1 away win over Wolves. Palace continues to play terrific soccer and now have five wins and a draw over their last six Premier League games to sit 12th.

Beyond stats, Richards surpassed 2000 minutes on the season with this outing. This is the first time he has ever done that at a first team level.

He's always smiling ???? pic.twitter.com/xNneKomL06

On the field, the biggest takeaway for Richards is that he was very good with his aerials - as always. He continues to be very impressive at that in the Premier League. His long ball passing was off, however, in that he complete just 1/9 of his attempts.

Still, he has done well the last four months to cement his place in the team's future. This is a huge step forward after many felt he needed to leave after a tough first half of the season when he wasn't playing much.

Tyler Adams attempted his third comeback since suffering his hamstring injury in March 2023. First it was in September during a brief outing in a Carabao Cup match for Bournemouth. He was reinjured in that game and was out until March. Then in March, he made one Premier League appearance and then two with the USMNT. After returning from international duty, he went a full 90 for Bournemouth and subsequently suffered back spasms which kept him out until Saturday.

Playing against Brentford, Adams came into the game in the 81st minute with the score 0-0. He was on the field for a wild finish which Bournemouth lost 2-1.

We'll have some players return for #BOUBRE ???? pic.twitter.com/QqmN8IkM11

As for Adams, he had 10 touches and was 9/9 in passing. The real test, however, will be to see how he feels this week and what he can do in the season finale next weekend. The decision over bringing him to the Copa America is a big one and will come down to a lot of factors we don't yet know.

Folarin Balogun hasn't had a great season since being acquired by Monaco last August. Monaco spent a lot of money to buy Balogun and they were under pressure to buy a forward after Breel Embolo tore his ACL. Balogun's struggles were put under a spotlight in recent weeks with the return of Embolo, which sent Balogun to the bench as Embolo began to play well.

But on Sunday, the script was flipped. Balogun was on the bench for Monaco in an away match against Montpellier. But just before halftime, Embolo was forced out of the game with an injury and Balogun came in. With the game still scoreless in the 52nd minute, Balogun helped break the draw by providing an assist on Kassoum Ouattara's goal.

Premier but en @Ligue1UberEats pour Kassoum ???????? pic.twitter.com/jRJwKMZjlR

Aside from that, it wasn't a terribly effective 46-minute shift from Balogun. He finished with just 1 shot, 24 touches, and the assist was the only dangerous play in which he was involved. Monaco ended up winning 2-0 and is locked into a second place finish with just one more game remaining.

But Balogun will now get another opening with Monaco perhaps extending into the preseason or start of 2024/25. In the coming days, we will see the severity of Embolo's injury.

In the second to last week of the Bundesliga, the relegation battle was thrown up in the air on Saturday when FC Koln defeated Union Berlin 3-2. The game featured two Americans in Brenden Aaronson and Damion Downs.

It was Downs, 19, who proved to be the hero of the day when he buried a close header in traffic for a stoppage time winner. The German-born Downs (who has one U.S. YNT call-up) is still very young and has struggled to get involved in some of his appearances for Koln. That was the case in this game after he came into the game in the 74th minute. Before the goal, he only had one touch in about 18 minutes after coming on. The goal was just his second touch (he finished with two).

But it was critical as Koln needed a win to avoid relegation. As a result, they have an opportunity to survive if they win in the season finale next week and get either a loss from Union Berlin or Mainz.

As for Downs, it raises the question of his role with Koln – both if they stay up or if they go down. Is he the type of forward who the club can trust to either earn promotion or stabilize in the Bundesliga next season and avoid a relegation battle? Maybe. Goals like these help.

It also raises the question with Downs if he can make a push for a U.S. Olympic call-up in June? That seems like a stretch given that club is in its final preparations and he has never played with the U-23 team. But, maybe Marko Mitrovic can be swayed?

As for Union Berlin, Aaronson started and was pulled in the 54th minute as part of a double substitution for defensive purposes with Union up 2-0. It proved to be a disaster. They went defensive to protect a two-goal lead and lost. Now, Union will head into the final round of the Bundesliga likely needing a result (possibly a win) to survive. Aaronson’s outing was decent (not great, not bad) but the team would have been better served with him to provide more offense on the field.

It’s always nasty when Celtic and Rangers meet up, but this game was significant to the title race. Celtic entered the game three points clear of Rangers and an edge in goal differential too – with two games remaining afterward. A Celtic win would essentially end the title race, and a draw would likely be enough as well. But a Rangers win would make it a tossup again.

Played in Celtic Park, this game was a lot less dramatic than anticipated as Rangers went down a man in the first half and Celtic controlled possession en route to a 2-1 win. Celtic finished with 62% possession and a 22-8 edge in shots.

Cameron Carter-Vickers wasn’t severely tested in central defense, but was on the ball a lot with 98 touches and 82/89 passing. Only two of his pass attempts were long balls over 35 yards, where he completed one. He had six clearances and was 5/8 of his aerials.

Celtic will likely secure the Premiership title on Wednesday at Kilmarnock. For Carter-Vickers, it will be his third straight title since arriving at the club.

When Sergino Dest went down with an ACL injury two weeks ago, many American fans turned attention to Joe Scally as the likely option to replace Dest on the Copa America team. The concern, however, is that Scally has been up and down this season.

But the good news is that Scally has raised his game starting almost at the same time as Dest’s injury. This was the case on Saturday when Scally went the distance for Borussia Monchengladbach at left back in a 1-1 draw at home against Eintracht Frankfurt.

Scally even assisted on M’Gladbach’s opening goal in the 9th minute when he got behind the defense on the left side and found Robin Hack open in the middle for a shot leading to the goal.

But it was a complete performance from Scally who was solid on both sides of the ball and will look to continue his strong run next week in the season finale against Stuttgart.

Also in this game, Jordan Pefok went as an unused substitute and M’Gladbach are surely not going to opt to exercise the option to buy his loan from Union Berlin. Pefok needs smart decision making this summer.

Timmy Chandler also was unused for Eintracht.

In January 2023, Fabian Hurzeler took the head coaching job at St. Pauli where he was previously an assistant. He was just 29 years old and the team was on the cusp of the relegation zone in the 2.Bundesliga. He promptly turned the club around and nearly pushed for promotion that May.

Now in his first full season as a head coach, he has led St. Pauli to promotion as it was secured on Sunday with a 3-1 win over Osnabruck.

The Houston-born, Germany-raised Hurzeler never made it as a player, but is seen as one of Germany’s bright young coaches. Now he will manage in the Bundesliga. He is definitely going places as a head coach and will emerge on the short list of big clubs soon.

Here is a picture of him with the U.S. U-20 team during a camp in 2011.

Congratulations to Houston-born Fabian Hurzeler who has lead St. Pauli to the Bundesliga. - He took the head coaching job last January at the age of 29 and in a relegation battle. He orchestrated an immediate and phenomenal turnaround- Back in the day with the U.S. U-20s pic.twitter.com/Um7bWLeIUt

In a very boring game, Juventus and Salernitana played to a 1-1 draw. Tim Weah was suspended while Weston Mckennie only played the first half. He was removed to start the second half with Juventus down 1-0. It took a 90th minute equalizer from Adrien Rabiot to give Juventus a result. It was Juve's fifth draw in a row.

There wasn't much to take away from this game. McKennie just didn't have it on the day and offered little in terms of winning balls or creating chances. He's had a good season, but this wasn't a good game.

Juve has two Serie A games left and then the Cup final. They're locked into a Champions League place, at least, but aren't ending the season well.

Kevin Paredes went the distance for Wolfsburg in a 2-0 loss away to Bayern Munich. The result snapped Wolfsburg's three-game winning streak but depite the loss, Kevin Paredes continued to play well. While he fluctuates between left back, left wingback, and either wing position, Paredes lined up at left wingback against Bayern.

Paredes played 79 minutes and was busy in his time on the field. He had 67 touches (significant for a team that only had 41% possession) and was 47/54 in passing. A big takeaway is that his crossing was sharp and it created a chance in the second half.

The Olympics are coming up and Paredes is age eligible. He has spent time with both he Olympic team and the USMNT. Based on the March camps, an Olympic spot seems like a best fit but will Wolfsburg let him go? That's a big question.

Gio Reyna was not in the lineup and Matt Turner watched from the bench as their Nottingham Forest teammates lost to Chelsea 3-2 at home. Lots will be said about these two players after the season and leading up to the Copa America, but Reyna’s loan to Forest has been a disaster and Dortmund have made it to the Champions League final with him gone. Whether a loan or a transfer, Reyna needs a smart move this summer. He can’t have another lost season. As for Turner, he might stick around as a backup.

Auston Trusty had a decent shift for Sheffield United in a 1-0 loss to Everton. He won duels, made some clearances, and passed well enough out of the back. For him, it is just about preparing for life in the Championship. Even with relegation Sheffield United will need to play better defense. The worst defense in the modern history of the Premier League doesn’t necessarily mean it will work in the Championship.

Antonee Robinson went the full 90 and Tim Ream watched from the bench as Fulham were trounced at home by leaders Manchester City 4-0. It’s been a great season for Robinson, but this wasn’t one to remember. Fulham will finish the season in mid-table after next week’s finale against Luton Town. Ream might make another appearance. Robinson could deserve a break.

In the Bundesliga on Saturday, Lennard Maloney returned from his shoulder injury earlier than anticipated and played the final 25 minutes for Heidenheim in a 1-1 away draw with Freiburg. The win moved Heidenheim into ninth place – a remarkable achievement given the expectations coming off promotion.

Maloney didn’t do much and all the scoring happened before he entered the game. He only had seven touches and wasn’t pressed into defensive duty much. But when he did, he looked at full strength and his defensive positioning in the midfield was his usual solid.

Maloney is pushing for a spot on the Copa America roster, and it will be close. He can use a good outing in the season finale next week vs. Koln.

Joel Imasuen, 19, did not suit up for Werder Bremen on Saturday in a 1-1 draw with Leizpig. Earlier this week, he helped Werder Bremen II earn promotion to the Regionalliga.

On Sunday, John Brooks was unused and unneeded for Hoffenheim in a 6-0 romp over last-place Darmstadt. With the win, Hoffenheim moved into seventh place of the Bundesliga and into the league’s Conference League position heading into next week’s finale at home against Bayern Munich. It would be a big accomplishment for American manager Pellegrino Matarazzo to take his club into European competition after inheriting the job last year when it was in a relegation battle.

In the 2.Bundesliga on Friday, Magdeburg and Greuther Furth played to a scoreless draw. Both of Furth’s two Americans, attacker Julian Green and U.S. U-23 defender Maximillian Dietz, were out injured for the ninth-place club.

On Sunday, U.S. U-23 forward Johan Gomez went 71 minutes for Eintracht Braunschweig in a 1-0 win over Wehen Wiesbaden. The win ended Braunschweig’s relegation battle on a successful note as they will be in the 2.Bundesliga next season. In this game, Gomez had a header in the 14th minute that forced a good save. Gomez is in the mix for the Olympic team but is probably on the outside looking in right now.

In Ligue 1 on Friday, Nice defeated Le Havre 1-0. With the result, Le Havre still occupy the last safe position in the league with one match to play (next week Le Havre will host Marseille). American winger Emmanuel Sabbi went 59 minutes for Le Havre and managed only 17 touches and three completed passes (he was 3/5). As always, he put in a good defensive shift where he won almost all of his loose balls and tackles.

In LaLiga, the good news is that Celta Vigo is safe from relegation. The bad news is that Luca de la Torre was limited to just a late cameo on Sunday in a 1-0 loss to Atletico Madrid. The USMNT midfielder came into the game in the 88th minute, four minutes after Atletico’s goal. In terms of momentum, he’s not in a great spot heading into the Copa America, but I don’t think he’s as much of a lock to make the team as he has been in recent years.

Johnny Cardoso started for Real Betis on Sunday in a 3-2 win over Almeria to remain in sixth place in LaLiga with three games remaining. The USMNT defensive/central midfielder put in a solid 60-minute shift and left with Real Betis up 2-1. Cardoso made very few mistakes, completing 27/30 passes, was never dispossessed, and won 6/8 of his ground duels. It was a clean performance that gave his team an edge in what was generally a very even game.

Cardoso hasn't played many minutes for the USMNT in tense situations but that is likely going to change this summer at the Copa America. But based on the 14 appearances (13 starts) he has made in LaLiga, he looks ready. What is most surprising about him is just his consistency in moving from Brazil to one of Europe's big leagues. Nearly every one of his outings has been strong.

In the Segunda, Mirandes fell 1-0 on the road to Racing Santander on Saturday. Mirandes is still in a tough spot, just three points clear of relegation with three games remaining. 2023 U.S. U-20 veteran Jonathan Gonez went the distance at left back for Mirandes and was active with 65 touches but wasn’t dangerous moving forward as he typically was.

Konrad de la Fuente played the final 20 minute for Eibar in a 2-2 away draw with Levante on Sunday. With the result, Eibar fell out of the Segunda’s automatic promotion spaces and into third place, the top seed in the playoffs. After a several productive outings off the bench, de la Fuente was on the field for Levante’s late equalizer and overall was very quiet.

In the Eredivisie on Sunday, PSV Eindhoven played like a partied-out team that spent all week celebrating clinching the Eredivisie title with a 1-1 draw against Fortuna Sittard. Malik Tillman went all 90 minutes and didn’t do much except have a very good chance saved from close range in the 64th minute.

So glad he's ours ????‍????#FORPSV pic.twitter.com/RedvhmGVH8

It was puzzling that Ricardo Pepi didn’t start given the title is in hand and Luuk De Jong is older and coming off a great season. But Pepi came into the game in the 69th minute and forced a save on a shot from distance in the 88th.

Also of note is that Richard Ledezma didn’t get into this game and went unused, again. This happened despite PSV not playing with much intensity and nothing being on the line. He hasn’t made an appearance this season since returning from his loan to NYCFC in January. He clearly needs to move.

On the other half of the Eredivisie table on Sunday, Zach Booth was thankfully not in uniform for Volendam in a 7-2 loss to FC Twente. Booth, 20, has had some good games this year but hasn’t been able to standout much on a Volendam team that has already secured relegation. He is at the club on loan from Leicester, which has been promoted to the Premier League. Booth will likely be looking for another loan or a transfer this summer.

The older Booth brother, Taylor Booth, 22, rebounded from a tough outing with a decent one for Utrecht despite a 1-0 loss at home to Sparta Rotterdam on Sunday. Booth only went 56 minutes but created two chances. Defensively, he was strong with 2/2 in tackles, 3/3 in aerials, and 2/2 in ground duels. But his final ball was a little off on the day. The stats showed just 1/10 in crossing, and 1 pass into the final third. He was 7/11 in passing.

Booth remains on the bubble for the Olympic team and the wing/attacking midfield positions are competitive. The good news for Booth is that Utrecht will be in the Eredivisie Conference League playoff after next week’s season finale, so he will have a few more games to both help his club and boost his U.S. U-23 standing.

Vitesse might have been relegated even without the point deduction, but they are clearly playing much better soccer lately. Part of that is due to Paxten Aaronson, who has done a very good job for the club on his loan from Vitesse. He’s raised their level and perhaps they would have been safe if they had Aaronson from the beginning of the season and if they didn’t have the deduction. Aaronson was sharp again on Sunday in a 3-1 away win over Heerenveen. Aaronson completed all 17 of his passes and was important to the build-up to a number of decent chances for Vitesse.

Rust in het Abe Lenstra Stadion ??#heevit pic.twitter.com/Plc8BvGVpK

As for Aaronson, I would look for him to be a big part of the U.S. Olympic team this summer and I think he’ll be released this time (unlike last year’s U-20 World Cup). The big question is what else happens for Aaronson on the club front. He’ll return to Eintracht Frankfurt. But does he need a transfer or another loan? Or is he in the club’s Bundesliga plans. No matter what, he’s in a good place right now. He’s shown well in the Eredivisie at young age.

Anthony Fontana was again an unused substitute for PEC Zwolle in Sunday’s 1-1 draw away to RKC Waalwijk.

It was the final round of matchdays in the second tier Eerste Divisie on Friday. FC Dordrecht and Jong Utrecht played to a 1-1 draw. With Dordrecht already set in fourth place and a spot in the promotional playoffs, left back John Hilton and forward Korede Osundina were rested and went as unused subs.

ADO Den Haag will also be participating in the promotional playoffs despite a 3-2 loss on the final matchday to Jong PSV. Unfortunately, U.S. U-23 eligible right back Justin Che remains injured.

Staying in the second tier, Gedion Zelalem did not play for 18th place FC Den Bosch in a 2-0 loss to FC Eindhoven.

Agustin Anello was an unused sub for Cambuur in a 1-1 draw with Helmond Sport.

On Friday, Standard Liege and Westerlo saw their game postponed due to protests from Standard fans who are upset over ownership issues involving the 777 Group. Fans blocked team busses from getting to the stadium. This game would likely have seen Marlon Fossey start at right back for Standard while winger Griffin Yow and right back Bryan Reynolds would have made the XI for Westerlo.

On Saturday, Gaga Slonina had one of his best games of the season for Eupen in a 2-0 win over Molenbeek. The U.S. Olympic team goalkeeper made seven saves, including two impressive ones from point blank range to keep the shutout. Eupen was already relegated after last week’s loss to Kortrijk but this result relegated Molenbeek. Slonina will return to Chelsea after next week’s finale and likely look for another loan. Hopefully this performances gives him momentum after what has been a tough season.

Mark McKenzie went the distance for Genk which lost its fourth game in a row on Saturday in a 2-1 defeat on the road against Anderlecht. Everyone on Genk is struggling and the team only has two games left. They’re still in contention for the Conference League spot but momentum is not in their favor.

McKenzie is facing a summer where he could be on the move. He’s entering into the last year of his contract and reports are that he’s not signing an extension – which would force a move. He’s also on the bubble for the USMNT Copa America team but could be behind Ream, Robinson, Carter-Vickers, and Richards. He is an Olympic team overage option, but that would require a release and that is tricky for a player who is going to move.

Nothing much was on the line when St. Truiden posted a 2-1 win over KV Mechelen in Belgium's First Division. This is the middle Conference League playoff round for the First Division. Gent has already secured the Conference League spot and the remaining games are meaningless. Kahveh Zahiroleslam started for St. Truiden and played 73 minutes in mostly a quiet performance. He has five goals this season, his first as a professional after leaving Yale, but has gone cold lately. His last goal game on March 17. At this point, an Olympic team call-up in June seems unlikely.

In Croatia's HNL, Rokas Pukstas played 89 minutes for Hajduk Split on Sunday in a 1-1 draw away to NK Istra 1961. The result continued Hajduk's tough run the past three months and Hajduk is now locked into a third-place finish with two games remaining.

Pukstas finished with 41 touches, 14/21 in passing, and two chances created. Most impressively, he drew seven fouls and was 11/15 in his ground duels. Pukstas will likely leave the club in the summer as there are reports he has asked for a transfer. At 19, he will get offers as a regular starter for Hajduk. He typically finds ways to be dangerous every game, the area where he needs to improve is just getting more touches and finding ways to be involved throughout.

But overall, this season saw him build on last season (where he won the Croatian Cup) and he's heading in the right direction. Unfortunately, making the Olympic team seems like an uphill climb at the moment as he has yet to be involved with the team since the start of the cycle in October.

For the second straight week, Jonathan Amon started and provided a winning assist for Lyngby to help the club climb away from the relegation zone. This time it was a 31st minute close pass off a throw-in that was the difference. Amon, 25, has battled injuries for years but now finally looks like a player who is ready to contribute. He’s playing his best soccer in four years.

Great to see Jonathan Amon hitting his form again. He now has an assist in 2 straight weeks for Lyngby. This one puts his team up 2-1. https://t.co/ZRgXTet0xp

In Scotland’s Premiership, Scott Pittman played 67 minutes for Livingston in a 2-1 win over St. Johnstone. It was a bittersweet day for Pittman who played well and won but it came a week after the club sealed relegation to the second tier. Pittman is Livingston’s all-time leader in appearances.

One American who had a nice day in Scotland was Dante Polvara, 23, who started for Aberdeen and went 67 minutes in a 4-0 away win over Hibernian. The highlight of Polvara's strong shift was in the 39th minute when he scored the team's second goal.

Not a bad way to score your first league goal for the Dons ????????#StandFree ???? pic.twitter.com/tRCheivpp6

But Polvara was solid in addition to the goal. He had three shots and was effetive with his passing while playing a deep-lying defensive midfield position. His long-range passing was solid in switching Aberdeen's point of attack and he was effective defensively to shutting downs Hibs.

Next year will be important for Polvara to show consistency. He's shown he can be a good player in Scotland. But now he has to do it on a weekly basis.

In the Austrian Bundesliga on Sunday, Sebastian Soto played the final nine minutes for Austria Klagenfurt in a 1-0 loss at home to Rapid Vienna. Klagenfurt has been eliminated from qualifying for Europe next season.

Also in Austria’s top tier, LASK played leaders Sturm Graz to a 2-2 draw. The draw prevented Sturm Graz from clinching the title and saw their lead atop the table over Salzburg reduced to two points. The result also clinched third place for LASK who can do no better or worse. That result puts LASK into Europa League qualification.

George Bello went the full 90 minutes for LASK and had a busy day. He drew five fouls on the day and his dribbling/movement helped to keep LASK in the attack. Bello hasn’t been star, but he has made progress in his game after a tough time in Germany. His defense has improved and he’s getting into good positions. Next year will be interesting to see if he can become one of the best left backs in Austria. The hype over Bello is gone, but the progress hasn’t stopped.

In Finland's Veikkausliiga, Justin Rennicks played all 90 minutes in the front line for AC Oulu in a 1-1 draw with IF Gnistan. Oulu remains winless through six games.

In Portugal’s top tier, Vizela defeated CF Estrela 4-0, Alex Mendez went as an unused substitute and has only played 350 minutes this season. Despite the win, Vizela was relegated due to Portimonense’s draw on Saturday. Mendez is still only 23 and will surely be on the move this summer after the relegation and with his contract expiring next month.

In Ireland’s Premier Division, Derry City defeated Bohemian FC. 2019 U.S. U-20 World Cup central defender Aboubacar Keita went the distance for sixth-place Bohemian in the loss.

In Mexico’s playoff, Chivas advanced past Toluca after a 0-0 away draw but a 1-0 aggregate victory. U.S. U-23 winger Cade Cowell played the final 21 minutes for Chivas after helping set up the only goal in the first leg.

Monterrey also advanced past Tigres on Sunday with a 1-1 draw which was enough for a 3-2 win on aggregate. Brandon Vazquez started for Monterrey but wasn’t at his best and was pulled at halftime.

It was the opening week of games in Argentina’s Primera and Newell’s Old Boys defeated Club Atletico Platense 2-0 on Friday. Matko Miljevic went as an unused sub for Newell’s Old Boys. Also in Argentina, Alan Sonora was unused for Huracan in a 3-1 win over Defensa y Justicia. His older brother Joel Sonora was not in the squad for Independiente Rivadavia on Sunday in a 2-0 away win over Lanus.

In the Swiss Super League, American defender Lucas Pos went the full 90 for last-place Stade Lausanne-Ouchy in a 3-1 win over Yverdon. State Lausanne-Ouchy remained eight points deep in last place but were able to fight off relegation for another week with this result. There are still three games remaining.

In Latvia’s top tier, Jordan Bender started and played 55 minutes for FK Metta in a 3-0 win over FK Jelgava. The former Orlando City midfielder was subbed out after all the goals were scored.

In Poland’s Ekstraklasa, Korona Kielce fell into the relegation zone after a 3-0 loss to leaders Jagiellonia Bialystock. Former Phoenix Rising forward Danny Trejo, 25, started and played 61 minutes for Korona Kielce which is one point deep in the relegation zone with two games remaining.

In Slovakia’s Super Liga, Zyen Jones was an unused sub for FC Kosice in a 1-0 loss to Skalica. One week remains in the regular season but, barring a biblical miracle, Kosice will be playing in the relegation playoff game after that.

In Norway’s Eliteserien, Sam Rogers was an unused sub for HamKam in a 2-2 draw with FK Haugesund. Former LA Galaxy II defender/midfielder Adam Saldana made his league and club on Sunday when he played the final nine minutes for KFUM Oslo in a 4-1 loss at home to Fredrikstad.

In Norway’s second tier, Bob Bradley’s Stabaek blew a 3-0 lead on the road to Moss and had to settle for a 3-3 tie. All three of Moss’s goals were scored between the 73rd and 82nd minutes. The second goal for Moss was scored by American fullback and former Houston Dynamo Ian Hoffmann. Meanwhile, Thomas Roberts went the distance for Stabaek. Stabaek still sit second as they look for promotion while Moss sits 10th.

In Hungary, Henry Wingo did not suit up for Ferencvaros in a 2-0 loss to Diosgyori VTK. Ferencvaros has already won the title and there are reports Wingo will be joining Austin FC this summer.

In Iceland’s Besta Deildin, Aron Johannsson went a full 90 in central midfield (a position he converted to last season) for Valur in a 3-1 win over KA Akureyri.
