BACK IN MARCH, Wesley Okoduwa was just a typical 15-year-old attending school. His first class was science, and, in his words, he was a bit “moody” ahead of what he figured would be a long day ahead.

But just before his first class began, events unfolded that he would never forget. The school’s head teacher called him into the office and informed him that he had to leave school for the day because he was needed by the first team at Wolverhampton ahead of their upcoming Premier League game against Newcastle United.

Up to that point, he was playing for the club’s youth teams. It is exceedingly rare for player of his age to become involved with a Premier League team.

“I remember that moment,” Okoduwa told American Soccer Now. “I was in science. It was the first class of the morning. I was a bit moody because I had to get through the whole day. But then the head teacher called me into the office. He said you're needed with the first team. I was happy and delighted. I left school and went to help the team.”

Okoduwa would remain as an unused substitute in that game. He would go on to make the first team bench for Wolves four more times the rest of the season but would not make his Premier League debut. Still, the attention he received for making the matchday roster at his age was substantial.

“That was quite big for me, being put on the bench,” Okoduwa said. “A big responsibility was put on my shoulders. I have to be a role model for all of the young kids out there who are aspiring to be footballers. I was excited. It was a good occasion, especially my first time. I got a buzz out of it. I made it a few more times. I knew my role on the team. I don't think I would be getting on the pitch but just being there, having my name around it was good. It was a great experience. It's good to be exposed to that type of stuff at such a young age. My family was there. It's one of the moments I cherish for a long time.”

Those first-team call-ups in addition to his impressive performances for both the U-18 and U-21 teams of Wolves in 2023/24, saw him enter the summer with speculation over his future. It wasn’t long until there were media reports of big clubs, specifically Chelsea and Manchester United, eager to sign him.

It was period that required Okoduwa to make a very adult-like decision. After consulting with his family, he opted to remain at Wolves because of the impressive developmental steps he has taken there, the club’s plans for him, and his overall happiness of playing for the club.

“My relationship with the club is very good,” Okoduwa explained. “I've been here since I was a very young age, I think at nine. Interest coming from very big clubs is a good thing. My family and I had to sit down and talk about that - what I want to do with my career. But I'm happy with how things are progressing at Wolves. When interest came in from big clubs, part of me was like we really have to talk about this. But I have been progressing through the ranks here and I have been enjoying it. That's why I chose to stay.”

Now at Wolves, things are a little different. He is no longer in school and is a full-time professional player. This has made it a lot easier for him to transition to a higher level. Thus far this season he has mostly been with the U-21 team at Wolves. Now at 16, the U-21 team still has him playing up by several age levels. He also serves as a mentor for some of the players his age still playing with the U-18 and U-16 levels, explaining to them the specific demands of the older age groups.

“I just came out of school, and obviously I was trying to juggle that,” Okoduwa said of his development this season. “I was in a school program, and it was hard with school and then training in the evening. But now I am full time, and it is easier. I can just come in, train. I live close to the grounds. It's going well. I have the right people around me.”

“It's been physically demanding,” he added. “Coming from a school-boy U-16 level to now playing U-21s, it's a big challenge. You're playing against men now. I am doing my bits in the gym now, trying to get bigger and stronger to adapt and get used to it.”

Okoduwa has indeed blossomed into a top prospect at right back. With top athleticism, he loves to get forward in a manner you typically find in among top modern fullbacks. When he was younger, he grew up idolizing high-skilled forwards such as Neymar and Cristiano Ronaldo. He would often then try to implement what they do while he was involved in the attack. But then when he puts it into the perspective of a fullback, he cities Alphonso Davies as someone he admires in his ability to both attack and defend well.

“I'm a right back,” Okoduwa said. “We have a system at Wolves where the right back pushes higher. Sometimes I might be playing out on the wings, but I can still do my defensive roles because I can get back in transition. I play right back but I can go high and attack as well.”

Moving forward in his career, Okoduwa is in a great spot at the club level. The international side of the game, however, is wide open for him. He was born in New York City, in the borough of the Bronx, in 2008. But he only lived there for a few years before returning to live with his mother in England.

His father, Emmanuel Okoduwa, is from Nigeria and was a former professional who achieved the most success while playing in Ukraine’s top tier. He also played for Nigeria’s national team during its 2008 African Cup of Nations qualification campaign.

Okoduwa is eligible to play for either England, the United States, or Nigeria. In 2023, he made inroads with England while playing for their U-16 team. But earlier this month for the September 2024 window, things became more interesting for Okoduwa when he was called-up by the U-17 teams for both England and the United States.

Ultimately, he decided to play for England, and he impressed in a 5-0 win over Mexico and then a 3-1 win over Germany. He started both games at right back.

But Okoduwa insists he wants to keep all of his options on the table. With Nigeria, he says his father “talks to me sometimes about that. He wants me to represent Nigeria. I don't think my mom agrees with that [laughs]… It's another experience and I wouldn't mind having multiple [opportunities].”

With the United States, he is specific that he is very much open to the idea of representing the Stars and Stripes. He acknowledges that both England and the United States offer great opportunities. For the United States, he is also eager to strengthen the ties to his birth country and return for the first time since he left as a young child.

“Recently, for September I got an England call-up and a USA call-up,” Okoduwa said. “I had to choose one of the two. With England there are the Euros and the qualifiers, I am interested in all of that. But I am open to coming to the USA and representing them. It depends on what I choose.”

“I am happy to represent the country anytime if I am called upon,” he added of the United States. “I was born in the Bronx, and I stayed there for a couple of years and then we moved... I haven't been back yet, but it's something that I really want to do.”
