WE ARE GOING TO cover a lot of ground in our Morning update, from the roster changes on the United States national team, to some thoughts from the MLS playoff races, and finally some other news around the world of American soccer.

With all of that, let’s get right into it.

Veteran USMNT defenders Tim Ream and Antonee Robinson addressed the media from the USMNT camp on Tuesday. The two former Fulham teammates spent time explaining the first days under new coach Mauricio Pochettino.

The big takeaways from the first two days is that

“They want to get to know us and obviously we want to get to know them,” said Ream. “There were a lot of individual conversations, understanding us as people, and they’ve continued throughout. As the hours have ticked by, you see certain guys getting pulled to have sit-down chats. I think it’s great.”

“We’ve had the full group together today for the first time,” Ream added. “It’s intense. We had a pretty long session, I’d say one of the one of the longer ones we’ve had with the national team setup. Just working on basics, looked at a few things from yesterday’s training and reviewed that. And as a result they worked on some movement and connection things with the backline and midfield. The attackers all went together and worked on a few things. Just really getting their ideas onto our heads and into our understanding to make sure that we’re all on the same page going forward.”

Over the weekend, it was announced that that Folarin Balogun, Johnny Cardoso, and Tim Weah would be withdrawn from the USMNT roster due to injuries. They were replaced by Brandon Vazquez, Tanner Tessmann, and Alex Zendejas.

It’s tempting to try to overanalyze this pick, but Mauricio Pochettino wanted to keep a consistent roster from the last camp. My guess is that he didn’t want to change the roster (outside of injured players) without having them in camp. A big point of emphasis in his introductory call is that he didn’t speak or meet with players (outside of a chance meeting with Antonee Robinson) prior to camp. With no prior meetings with players before camp, everyone arrived with a clean slate.

Midfielder Tanner Tessmann and forwards Brandon Vazquez and Alex Zendejas have been added to the #USMNT roster for the October matches against Panama and Mexico.Folarin Balogun, Johnny Cardoso and Tim Weah have all been withdrawn due to injury issues.

As for players who were injury replacements, they are veteran players who have played important in the past. Tanner Tessmann is on the more inexperienced side, but he was the recent Olympic captain.

After he has a chance to meet players, I think then we’ll see him start to make some evaluations.

The Chicago Fire have hired former USMNT head coach Gregg Berhalter to be their head coach and director of football, who will report directly to owner Joe Mansueto.

The Fire have not been relevant in the league for 15 years and they need a different approach. Berhalter now has a lot of power to do it.

For our fans. For our city. #cf97 pic.twitter.com/UUOOdIx0DP

Tab Ramos said last year while with the Revolution that he noticed how quickly the league changed in just a few years since he left Houston. Berhalter has been out of the league since 2017 and MLS 2024 is far different now.

Coaching wise, Berhalter is what he is. The club environment will allow him to work with players on a more regular basis than on the international side. Being the Director of Football will be more revealing, and probably more demanding as he tries to make deals and build a roster.

The Eastern Conference is a little more set in its ways. The order of the first three teams is set, and cannot change: Miami, Columbus, and Cincinnati.

After that, Orlando, NYCFC, Charlotte, and the Red Bulls will finish in spots four through seven, but we don't know the order.

The race for the play in game Is between DC United, Montreal, Philly, and the Atlanta.

Then you have the teams who are eliminated: Toronto, Nashville, New England, and Chicago.

Based on recent games, here are my observations and some predictions.

The top three: Inter Miami and Columbus have nothing to worry about right now. They should be confident of making a run until at least the Conference Final. These aren’t only the two best teams in the Conference, they’re the two best teams in the league.

One final regular season home match on the horizon. We can't wait to be together again on Saturday ????????#Crew96 ? @WhiteClaw pic.twitter.com/STJ0BYVgIp

Cincinnati is still dangerous but is also very vulnerable. In the playoffs when the intensity is raised, the problems in the backline will be magnified. They have won one out of their last six MLS home games. Even against good competition such as LAFC and Orlando, they’re coming up short. In the season finale, they have to face Philly away. The Union should be desperate. If Cincy don’t win, and are wineless in four entering the post season, expectations need to be dialed back.

Four to Seven: Right now, Orlando is in a great spot to finish fourth and lock-up a home field advantage through the first two rounds. Oscar Pareja’s team has won six out of seven and has looked good in each of these games. A win and most likely a draw at home against Atlanta in their finale locks up fourth. It’s hard to see them losing at home to Atlanta. Looking ahead, they are likely to face NYCFC in the first round.

On that note, New York City sit fifth after three wins in a row and their offense is alive and well having scored 11 goals in that span. I still have some concerns over the fact this team hasn't really been on the road in its last five games. Assuming Orlando takes care of business in their finale, NYCFC is going to have to take its show on the road in the playoffs. But NYCFC's finale at Montreal should give us a good preview. On a weird note, they'd probably do better finish sixth and facing Cincy than finishing fifth and facing Orlando.

Charlotte is currently sitting sixth, which is probably better than fifth given the struggles of Cincy. Charlotte is a team that, like NYCFC, has benefitted from playing three of its last four at home. Their summer acquisitions are finally paying off. A win or draw over DC United on Decision Day should get the job.

All gas, no brakes from the start ????‍???????? @DrinkBODYARMOR pic.twitter.com/IpKOJfo1mz

As for the Red Bulls, they are limping towards the playoffs. Yes, their 15-season playoff streak is in tact, but all signs are that it will be a quick trip for them. They get to face Columbus in the season finale, and while Columbus might rest a few players, the Crew are favorite. Then in the playoffs, the Red Bulls will then have to face the Crew again in a three game series.

Bottom line, I think the standings right now are how they will finish from first through seventh.

Eighth and Ninth, the play-in game: Four teams are in the mix. Philadelphia and Atlanta are both three points behind DC United and Charlotte. What’s fun about this round is that all four teams will be playing top six teams.

Atlanta seems to be the most in trouble. Traveling to Orlando, they are the least likely to win. They’ve won only one out of their last eight road games. On top of that, Orlando is just too strong right now.

And she ain't singing yet ????????? pic.twitter.com/CgjU8CS70o

Philadelphia has a decent chance. They’re home against a struggling Cincinnati team. They also have an unusually high goal differential for a team outside of the playoff positions (+8). It’s been a bad season for Philly, but if they win this game, all they need is for DC United to lose to Charlotte or Montreal to lose to NYCFC. You have to like those odds.

As for both Montreal and DC United, they’ve been playing better but they’ve also been bottom feeding with their wins. Montreal has taken advantage of Josef Martinez finding great form, and that has been huge. DC United also has been boosted by terrific play from Christian Benteke.

My own wild prediction is that Philly hosts Montreal in the play-in game. The winner faces Inter Miami.

Some of the drama of Decision Day is already over for the Western Conference because we know all nine of the playoff teams. Teams outside the top nine are eliminated: Austin, Dallas, St. Louis, Sporting KC, and San Jose.

Decision Day will only determine seeding, some of which is very important.

TOP FOUR: I don’t see any chance that the Galaxy doesn’t finish as the top seed and LAFC doesn’t finish second. Yes, it’s not mathematically sealed, but both teams have hit their groove and that was on display over the weekend.

Gabriel es inevitable. pic.twitter.com/QanVuWeUOM

For spots three and four, Seattle and Real Salt Lake now enter the final weekend even on points and goal differential. This could go either way, but it’s not terribly important. If Seattle finishes fourth, it probably keeps them away from LAFC until the Conference Final, which is a good thing for them.

Five to Seven: After this past weekend, Minnesota is in the best place to keep rising. If you like to reference things in terms of “buying stock,” buying Minnesota isn’t a bad move. They haven’t conceded a goal in four games, they have a red hot striker in Kelvin Yeboah. They also host their season finale against an eliminated St. Louis. Right now, they’re seventh but are only two points behind fifth place Houston. Meanwhile on the final day, Houston hosts the surging Galaxy while the slumping sixth place Rapids visit Austin. There is a good path there for Minnesota.

WE ARE SO BACKFor the fifth time in the past six seasons, your Loons are headed to the #MLSCupPlayoffs! pic.twitter.com/nZjxY0IolQ

Right now, not much should inspire confidence in Colorado or Houston. Colorado has lost three in a row, including the last two at home.

Eighth and Ninth, the play-in game: Right now it is Vancouver and Portland bringing up the rear. Vancouver as two games left, but both are very difficult. This weekend against LAFC (during the international window), and then away to RSL. Portland meanwhile has to go to Seattle.

Bottom line: I’m predicting Galaxy, LAFC, Seattle, RSL, Minnesota, Houston, Colorado, Vancouver, Portland.

With the Chicago job now taken, there are still positions up for grabs (and maybe some more incoming too.

Austin FC: Josh Wolff was just let go by Austin FC where he was the club’s first ever coach. It should be an attractive job, but the vision of the club has changed since Claudio Reyna left as the sporting director. The club needs to build up its roster, and get deals done quickly.

Austin FC has parted ways with Head Coach Josh Wolff. A search for a new head coach will begin immediately.

Atlanta United: is the biggest job open. Expect this one to be announced very soon, should Atlanta not make the playoffs. I am expecting Garth Lagerwey to really make big moves in the coming months.

St. Louis City: John Hackworth has been filling in since Bradley Carnell was let go midseason. The club needs to decide what it wants out of its identity before finding a coach. Does it want to continue with a Red Bull-style press? Or does it want a different approach?

FC Dallas: Nico Estevez was let go in June and Peter Luccin has been the interim ever since. This is the only vacancy where I could see the interim contend for the job. The team played some pretty soccer under Luccin and it was a tough year with injuries.

San Jose Earthquakes: Lucci Gonzalez was let go in June and it was a disaster of a season for the Quakes. The club needs to answer much bigger questions than who will be the coach.
