THE WEEKEND and the start of the week for Americans abroad was, once again, mixed. There was some good news, some bad and right now all the attention is on the core players of the U.S. national team – which is rather meh. Yes, the Leeds United duo pulled off another win and Gio Reyna buried a penalty. The rest probably won’t have many American fans feeling all that great.

With all that said, let’s just quickly get into it. This won't be a complete run down as ASN is getting over MLS Cup and is preparing for the USMNT World Cup roster announcement, but we get through the core and most of the top stories.

As we have done for the last several months, we are going to start with the USMNT core players because for all the ongoing debates over the roster, none of it really means anything if the best players aren’t playing well.

So where is this group heading into the World Cup? Eh…

Leeds United defeated AFC Bournemouth 4-3 in an epic contest where Leeds United trailed 3-1 into the 60th minute but rallied for three goals which was capped by an 84th minute winner from Crysencio Summerville. Tyler Adams played the full 90 minutes for Leeds and Brenden Aaronson started and was taken out two minutes after Summerville’s winner.

The verdict is that Tyler Adams was terrific in this game. Of all the top American players who are locks for Qatar, Adams is in the best form by far – that is a great thing for the USMNT because when he is at his best, he is the team’s most irreplaceable player.

In this game, Adams was instrumental in breaking up plays, covering a ton of ground, and constantly getting the ball into attacking positions.

Aaronson wasn’t quite as strong but he was still a net positive for Leeds United in trying to advance the ball and press Bournemouth. Typically when a team scores four goals in the Premier League, most or all of the attacking players had a good game – even if they didn’t score or assist. Aaronson was still a handful to defend.

As for Jesse Marsch, he dumped a bucket of ice onto his hotseat with wins over Liverpool at Anfield and now over Bournemouth. If this team can add a central defender and an effective striker in January, they’ll be in great shape to continue to push into midtable.

Borussia Dortmund defeated Bochum easily on Saturday by a 3-0 scoreline. Gio Reyna played 67 minutes and surprisingly took a 12th minute penalty which he converted. With Dortmund ahead 1-0, Donyell Malen drew a penalty which the American teenager elected to take.

It was a remarkable sign of confidence from Reyna, and he converted easily. Aside from the penalty, Reyna did a pretty good job in this game. He completed just 16/24 of his passes and had no other shots, but he was effective in the press and helped on the defensive side of the game.

What is most important about Reyna is that he is now back to his normal, pre-injury workload. It has taken more than a year, but he has started four of Dortmund’s last five games and is doing well in both the Bundesliga and the Champion League. He should be able to start in multiple group stage games, at least.On Tuesday, Reyna returned to the bench for BVB and played an uneventful 23 minutes in a 2-0 loss to Wolfsburg. He might not like the loss but as long as he is healthy, it is great for the U.S. team.

Yunus Mush started for Valencia in Saturday’s 1-1 draw at Real Sociedad. The U.S. midfielder played 75 minutes in what was a disappointing result for Valencia given that Real Sociedad suffered a 17th minute red card. Valencia was trailing but equalized in the 25th minute. From there, they were unable to find a winner.

Musah, 19, was quiet in this game playing on the left side of the midfield. Musah didn’t make any real mistakes but was unsuccessful in trying to break down a compact Sociedad defense before he was removed.

Fulham losing 2-1 away to Manchester City is not a surprising result. But given that Manchester City was reduced to 10 players after a 26th minute red to Joao Cancelo (which gave Fulham an equalizing penalty) and the game was level 1-1 into stoppage time, Fulham are disappointed to leave this game empty handed.

Both Americans were responsible for each of City’s goals. Tim Ream was beaten for speed on a through ball from Julian Alvarez’s opener. Then in stoppage time, Antonee Robinson conceded the penalty which was converted by Erling Haaland.

Ream is on the outskirts of the USMNT roster bubble for Qatar while Robinson is a lock starter for the team. Despite the mistake, Robinson is still in good form heading into the World Cup. Ream was beaten for speed, but he is what he is on that – and there is nothing he can do.

Meanwhile, Sergino Dest did not play in AC Milan’s 2-1 win over Spezia on Sunday. Reports suggest it is a minor injury but this move is still waiting to take off.

Christian Pulisic played just the final 12 minutes for Chelsea in a 1-0 loss at home in a London Derby to Arsenal. It was a tough loss for Chelsea and Pulisic had just five touches in the game – but managed to complete all four of his passes.

Arsenal outplayed Chelsea heavily in this game and the fact Pulisic didn’t play in most of it is a good sign.

The best news in this game from a USMNT perspective is the return of Matt Turner. After two weeks out of the team with a groin injury, he returned to the bench for the Gunners.

On Sunday, Tim Weah started for Lille in a 1-1 draw at home with Rennes. The biggest surprise is that Weah played at right wingback in this game – which is different than his normal wing position (or sometimes at the forward position).

Weah was good in this game and was heavily involved. He was able to get forward and he also defended well too.

It begs this question below – but I doubt this is a long-term positional switch for him although I think he will get the start there from time to time with Lille. For the national team, there are just to many real right backs in his way and there is a need for him on the wings.

I highly doubt it https://t.co/OaEFUrYmx9

There is good news on the national team’s core. Adams and Reyna are really heading into the World Cup in better shape than we hoped. Weah is at least starting games after missing a lot of time in preseason and the start of the season. I’d also put Robinson in the win column in terms of form.

The rest is a mix of ok or injured. No one is playing poorly, which is good, but there are question marks over confidence.

It’s still a better situation now as opposed to where the core was before the September window. Overall, I think U.S. national team fans would take the status quo even if it could be better.

The U.S. national team player pool heading into the week of roster selection shrunk by one player as Royal Antwerp left back Sam Vines suffered a broken tibia on Thursday’s practice and had to undergo surgery in Belgium. He is estimated to be out three to four months, or likely a return in February or March. It’s an unfortunate set back as Vines had been having a strong start to the season and heading into the September window, U.S. manager Gregg Berhalter said Vines was “in the form of his life.”

Mark McKenzie is probably not going to make the World Cup team but his performances for Genk have been steady and Genk is now nine points ahead atop the table of Belgium.

Mark McKenzie: raw # for Genk in 4-1 win over Sporting Charleroi- 90 mins- 96 touches- 80/85 passing- 7/9 passing- 1/1 tackles- 7 clearances- 1/1 ground duels- 1/3 aerials- 1st place Genk: 14 wins, 1 draw in last 15 games

Even if he doesn’t make the 2022 World Cup team, McKenzie will be back with the team at the start of next cycle, and he is now looking ahead to a very likely chance he will be in the Champions League next year.

Haji Wright scored a fantastic goal for Antalyaspor to spring 4-2 comeback win over Fatiah Karagumruk. With Antalyaspor down 2-0, Wright scored his team’s first goal en route to a 4-2 win.

For Wright, it was his ninth goal of the season which puts him in second place in the Super Lig for scoring, three behind Enner Valencia. Antalyaspor has now won three in a row to climb from near the relegation zone and into ninth place.

Wright is unlikely to be part of the USMNT plans in Qatar but he is also a player who can compete for a spot next cycle if he keeps up his outstanding run in Turkey.

Pepi and Booth

Two players who could likely be teammates in Paris at the 2024 Olympics met over the weekend. Taylor Booth and Ricardo Pepi.

Booth, 21, was the better story in this game and was again one of best players in the Eredivisie this weekend with a goal for FC Utrecht in a 2-1 win over Groningen. His strike was an outstanding individual effort and was the best moment of his young professional career.

Outstanding goal from Taylor Booth today for Utrecht in the win over Groningen. He’ll certainly be a part of the U.S U-23 team next year as it prepares for the 2024 Olympics in Paris pic.twitter.com/hIvs4hLrXh

Meanwhile, Pepi turned an off-target shot into an assist. It wasn’t a great play from Pepi, but it still counts as a goal contribution as we build towards Qatar – where he will likely go.

Was this assist from #USMNT forward Ricardo Pepi a shanked shot, or a pass? Does it matter? Groningen lost today 2-1 to Utrecht pic.twitter.com/oY9cD74yl7

Jordan Pefok and Union Berlin have seen their hot start fall apart. On Saturday, Union Berlin lost 5-0 to Bayer Leverkusen and Pefok created a chance but still only completed 5/11 in passing.

On Tuesday in Hungary, ZTE’s American forward Eduvie Ikoba scored his 9th and 10th goals of the season in a 3-0 win over Kisvarda FC to retake the lead in Hungary’s top flight NB I.

Eduvie Ikoba’s 10th goal of the season to reclaim the Golden Boot lead in Hungary’s NB I pic.twitter.com/IixjK7zgAY

James Sands and Malik Tillman both had rough weekends for Rangers in a 2-1 loss to St. Johnstone. Sands started and played 83 while Tillman was replaced in the 67th minute. Tillman is very much a bubble player for the USMNT World Cup roster.

Erik Palmer Brown is another long shot for Qatar but certainly one for next cycle. He played a ig 90 minutes for Troyes in 1-1 draw with Auxerre on Saturday.

Joe Scally full 90 for Borussia Monchengladbach in its 3-1 win over VfB Stuttgart on Frida
