HAPPY WEDNESDAY everyone, we’ve reached the midweek and American soccer rolls on with MLS preseason, Americans abroad, the United States U-17 team, and other news to run through.

As always, here is some news and our thoughts.

The United States men’s national team is operating in a transitional time. Earnie Stewart will depart from his role as Sporting Director soon. There is no national team General Manager after Brian McBride left. Gregg Berhalter is not the coach, although he remains a candidate. Anthony Hudson is the interim manager.

But the show rolls on. ASN learned on Tuesday the USMNT will have a scout in Holland to attend the following games and scout the following players.

There are a few caveats. Mihailovic has been hurt since last week. The injury was minor but he missed Tuesday’s cup game against Utrecht (which Utrecht won after extratime and Taylor Booth played 90 minutes). It remains to be seen if Mihailovic will be back by Friday.

The game on Saturday makes sense to scout and Pepi seems likely to return to the U.S. team soon after he was one of the final cuts for the 2022 World Cup team. He continues to play well for a Groningen team battling relegation. Ledezma, on the other hand, is unlikely to play or get called up. But if he does get on the field, he has the chance.

Booth, 21, has been having a very nice season with Utrecht. If the scouts are in Holland, he is well worth a visit. Booth seems likely to be a serious candidate for the U.S. U-23 Olympic team.

Scouting is merely observing but my take is that there seems to be a good chance of Mihailovic, Pepi, and Booth making the March roster.

The Philadelphia Union announced an extension for U.S. U-20 midfielder Jack McGlynn through the 2025 season and with club options for 2026 and 2027. McGlynn, 19, has shown a lot of promise for both Philadelphia and the U.S. U-20 team. He has played more than most of Philly’s top homegrown players and should feature a lot this season as the Union look like the preseason favorites as the league’s strongest team.

McGlynn is unlikely to be with Philadelphia for the duration of his contract. MLS teams have been quick to sign players to extensions before they are sold. It increases their value and it protects the club from losing a player for a free transfer. It also protects a player in case he is injured.

McGlynn will be in the shop window at the U-20 World Cup. But judging by Philadelphia’s business dealings of the past, a midseason move is unlikely (even if terms are agreed to before that). Ernst Tanner doesn’t like to lose players midseason. Brenden Aaaronson, Mark McKenzie, and Paxten Aaronson all played through the season.

It seems very likely the earliest McGlynn will leave is January 2024. But that is great news for Philadelphia, and it is also good for McGlynn to learn to succeed in the league, build roots, before moving on.

Sticking with the Philadelphia Union, head coach Jim Curtin was on the Cracked Podcast with Oguchi Onyewu and DaMarcus Beasley. When asked about the possibility of coaching the national team, Curtin didn’t just say he’d love to be the head coach, he also spoke about being the assistant.

"Of course. I'd love to coach the national team if that's what you're asking," Curtin said. "But I said this before and I mean what I say when I say it: Whoever they choose, if they choose Jose Mourinho, if they choose Ancelotti, if they choose Jesse Marsch, I would also be their assistant. You know what I mean? Like, that's how important I think this [2026] World Cup is."

Curtin is one of the top American coaches in the game and has been great in developing players. He has built Philadelphia into one of the league’s best teams on a relatively modest budget.

An important caveat is that Curtin is in the last year of his contract with the Union and as Jonathan Tannenwald said: “negotiations have been going on, but if they were done, we’d know.”

If Marsch emerges as a contender to coach the U.S. national team, Curtin could indeed be a likely candidate as assistant – if he really does want it. The two know each other well, having played together for Chicago and Chivas USA.

But to leave a head coaching gig for an assistant coaching job on the U.S. team seems like a downshift for Curtin. Is this going to help him in his future goals – to coach in a top European league or to eventually be the head coach of the U.S. team?

On the other hand, is this part of his negotiating strategy with Philadelphia? That’s possible as well.

Congratulations to Jaheim Headley, 21, for making his first team professional debut for Huddersfield Town on Tuesday. The fullback came into the Championship game against Blackpool in the 64th minute with the score 1-1. The game finished 2-2 and both teams are still in the relegation zone.

Blackpool 0-1 #htafcOur next two changes:???? Scott High & Ollie Turton???? Brahima Diarra & Jaheim Headley, on debut![?64']

Immediately after coming on, Headley forced a big save with a shot from the edge of the box that was tipped over the bar.

We will see if Headley continues to get more time.

For information on his background, he was born in England but is also eligible for the United States and Jamaica internationally.

It became official on Tuesday, bothers Joel Sonora, 26, and Alan Sonora, 24, will be heading to Liga MX to play for FC Juarez (currently 11th place). Alan Sonora recently made his U.S. national team debut in January for friendlies against Serbia and Colombia. He had a preference for signing for an MLS team and a move with Montreal fell through. It is likely that Juarez came up with the best offer – and would still allow him to live in the United States across the border.

Joel Sonora hasn’t represented the United States since the 2015 U-20 World Cup but has had trouble sticking with a club. In Argentina, he went on a series of loans and his recent move to Maritimo in Portugal was abruptly cut short by mutual consent.

If both brothers succeed in Juarez, perhaps it will open the door to playing in the states down the road.
