HAPPY MONDAY to all you ASN readers and we hope you enjoyed the U.S. national team’s 3-2 win over Senegal on Sunday in its first pre-World Cup tune-up friendly. The win helped change the narrative after the March window left supporters fill of skepticism over the team’s ability to compete this summer.

The win over Senegal was far from perfect as the U.S. team still made a lot of mistakes, two of which were punished. But the big takeaway is just how strong the team looked in the attack. Led by Christian Pulisic’s slump-ending performance, the U.S. team created chances and was effectively able to get the strikers, Ricardo Pepi in the first half and Folarin Balogun in the second, into the game.

Also, the team looked far more comfortable in a simpler variation of a 3-4-3 and large reason for that was the versatility of Alex Freeman to shift between right back and right central defense depending on possession.

STARTING SUMMER WITH A VICTORY! pic.twitter.com/SoCdOtXLRV

Now it is just a matter of cleaning up mistakes.

ASN’s Brian Sciaretta is elsewhere during the World Cup but we will pick up the slack in the weeks ahead.

Here are some thoughts on the news.

The U.S. U-21 team will hold a training camp in Rogaška, Slovenia from June 1-9. During the camp the team will play Ukraine on June 4 and Uzbekistan on June 8. The team will be coached by Russell Payne, who is also the coach of Northwestern University.

The U-21 team consists of a mix of players who are eligible for the Olympics or who are up to a year too old but are still talented players who U.S. Soccer wants to keep in the system. This team will gradually merge with the U-20 team in the fall to comprise of the Olympic team.

Here is the roster along with some thoughts.

The Roster

Goalkeepers (2): Julian Eyestone (Brentford/ENG; Dallas, Texas), Duran Ferree (San Diego FC; San Diego, Calif.)

Defenders (5): Reed Baker-Whiting (Nashville SC; Seattle, Wash.), Peyton Miller (New England Revolution; Unionville, Conn.), Nolan Norris (FC Dallas; Fort Worth, Texas), Justin Reynolds (Sporting Kansas City; Chicago, Ill.), Thomas Williams (Nashville SC; Titusville, Fla.)

Midfielders (6): Santiago Castaneda (Paderborn/GER; Tampa, Fla.), Taha Habroune (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Jackson Hopkins (D.C. United; Fredericksburg, Va.), Sergio Oregel Jr. (Chicago Fire FC; Chicago, Ill.), Rokas Pukstas (Hajduk Split/CRO; Stillwater, Okla.), Brooklyn Raines (New England Revolution; Chicago, Ill.)

Forwards (6): Zach Booth (Real Salt Lake; Eden, Utah), Luke Brennan (Atlanta United; Atlanta, Ga.), Cole Campbell (Hoffenheim/GER; Peachtree City, Ga.), Alan Carleton (Sandvikens/DEN; Marietta, Ga.), Damion Downs (Hamburg/GER; Schwebenried, Germany), Oluwakorede Osundina (Casa Pia/POR; Redmond, Wash.)

Roster Thoughts

There are several interesting players on this roster.

Peyton Miller is one of the top American teenagers in MLS and he is actually eligible for the 2027 U-20 World Cup. But having played in the 2025 tournament, he might simply focus on the Olympics. A speedy wide player, Miller can play both left back and left wing.

Santiago Castaneda is too old for the U.S. Olympic team but his resume is terrific for a 21-year-old. The Tampa native has been a starter the last three season for Paderborn and this past season he helped guide the team to promotion to the Bundesliga. If he plays well for Paderborn to the start the season, he could be on the national team sooner than later.

Cole Campbell and Damion Downs both had tough seasons in Europe and the two former top prospects will be looking to get back on track. Campbell, a speedy winger born in Texas, is eligible for the Olympic team.

Overall, the roster serves its purpose keeping players involved in the system until the Olympic team becomes more defined.

U-20 team heads to Bulgaria

Led by coach Rob Valentino, the U.S. U-20 team will hold a training camp in Bansko, Bulgaria from June 1-9. The team will face Georgia U-21 on June 5 and North Macedonia U-21 on June 8.

All players on this team are eligible for the 2028 Olympic team and all but Adam Beaudry were not part of the last U-20 World Cup team. That means these players are ones U.S. Soccer wants to keep in the system but are likely behind others in terms of making the Olympic team.

The #U20MNT are off to Bulgaria for a pair of friendlies against Georgia U-21s and and North Macedonia U-21s ?????? https://t.co/g9KldJXXzo pic.twitter.com/Ulb9VeeN4x

The Roster

Goalkeepers (2): Adam Beaudry (Colorado Rapids; Castle Pines, Colo.), Zackory Campagnolo (Colorado Rapids; Fort Myers, Fla.)

Defenders (7): Freddie Anderson (Stoke City/ENG; Manchester, England), Stuart Hawkins (Seattle Sounders; Fox Island, Wash.), Sawyer Jura (Portland Timbers; Bend, Ore.), Owen Presthus (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Tahir Reid-Brown (Orlando City; Orlando, Fla.), Elijah Scott (Lecce; Ludwigsburg, Germany)

Midfielders (6): Devon Decorte (Anderlecht/BEL; Southampton, Pa.), Aron John (Charlotte FC; Charlotte, N.C.), Eric Klein (New England Revolution; Lancaster, Pa.), Cruz Medina (CD Tapatio/MEX; San Francisco, Calif.), Edwyn Mendoza (San Jose Earthquakes; San Jose, Calif.), David Vazquez (San Diego FC; Los Angeles, Calif.)

Forwards (6): Dylan Borso (Chicago Fire; Chicago, Ill.), Bajung Darboe (Bayern Munich/GER; Madison, Wisc.), Andre Gitau (Mainz/GER; Richmond, Texas), Bryce Jamison (Colorado Rapids; Lake Forest, Calif.), Mykhi Joyner (St. Louis City; Bloomington, Ill.), Din Klapija (RB Leipzig/GER; New York City, N.Y.)

Sands and Lund end loans

Over the weekend, it was announced that two American players who were at Bundesliga clubs on loan last season would not be returning as clubs declined to exercise the purchase options as part of their loan.

James Sands joined St. Pauli in January 2025 on loan from New York City FC. After suffering a broken ankle in February 2025, his loan was extended through the 2025/26 season. In March, Sands again suffered another ankle injury and St. Pauli was eventually relegated out of the Bundesliga. When Sands played, he typically played well. But ultimately his latest injury combined with St. Pauli’s relegation made it unrealistic for the club to purchase the Rye, New York native. Sands will now return to New York City.

Kristoffer Lund joined FC Cologne in the Bundesliga on loan from Palermo in Italy’s Serie B in August. The Danish-born American left back made 33 appearances for Cologne this season and the club avoided relegation despite nervy times in the second half of the season. But ultimately, Cologne opted to no purchase Lund who will return to Palermo, for now.

Report: Parma buys Cremaschi

On Friday, Fabrizio Romano reported that Parma was going to exercise the option to buy on the loan for Benjamin Cremaschi from Inter Miami.

The 2025 U-20 World Cup Golden Boot winner joined the Serie A club in August but only began playing regularly in February. In a Serie A game against Torino in March, Cremaschi suffered an knee injury and was sidelined the rest of the season. It was in doubt whether Parma would exercise the option given the Floridian’s limited minutes this season.

This is a big step forward for Cremaschi who obviously impressed in training and in his professionalism to convince Parma to trigger its option.

Cremaschi is expected to be in contention for a spot on the 2028 U.S. Olympic team after making the 2024 Olympic team while playing a cycle up.
