IN ABOUT A MONTH, we will know the 2026 World Cup roster for the United States national team. The team will not gather between now and then, which means the only thing players can do is perform well for their clubs. While head coach Mauricio Pochettino insisted that the March roster was not the final roster, it should provide some clues.

The March roster was 27 players, although it had four goalkeepers – meaning that it was the same number of field players as the World Cup team will have. Assuming Tyler Adams, Sergino Dest, and Haji Wright will make the team after missing March due to injury, that means three players will have to come off, with one being Patrick Agyemang who is injured.

On top of that, the team did not play well in March against Belgium and Portugal. That could also make a few more players vulnerable.

The best guess, however, is that Pochettino has been trying to build something with this group and not use each window exclusively for auditions. There will be some changes, of course, but most of what we’ve seen since last September (when Pochettino said was the last chance to look at new players) is what will comprise of the World Cup roster.

With that said, here is a predicted roster.

1) Matt Freese 2) Matt Turner3) Chris Brady

In the mix: Patrick Schulte, Roman Celentano, Jonathan Klinsmann

Analysis: Matt Freese has been the U.S. national team No. 1 since last summer and Matt Turner has settled into the No. 2. Nothing in the March window suggested anything different. While it is possible Freese or Turner could flip starting/back-up roles leading up to the World Cup, it is impossible (absent injury) to see a scenario where both do not make the team.

That leads us to the No. 3 goalkeeper. Chris Brady seems like the best possible choice at the moment. Roman Celentano and Jonathan Klinsmann have struggled since the start of 2026. Patrick Schulte has been decent, but Brady has been better.

4) Chris Richards5) Tim Ream6) Mark McKenzie7) Auston Trusty

In the mix: Miles Robinson, Noahkai Banks, Tristan Blackmon, George Campbell, Walker Zimmerman

Analysis: this is arguably the weakest area of the player pool – and that is not good. Being strong in central defense is needed by teams who require upsets to make a run. Chris Richards is the best of the bunch, by a wide margin. Tim Ream has had a great career but has not had a good start to 2026. It is clear that age is catching up to him, but Pochettino is very invested in Ream and it is hard to envision a scenario where Ream is cut.

Mark McKenzie has had a decent season for Toulouse even if he hasn’t had a defining performance for the U.S. national team. Meanwhile, Auston Trusty had a decent shift in March – so why not? There just aren’t a lot of options in the back.

Miles Robinson couldn’t play during the March window due to injury. But beyond that, Cincinnati has been terrible defensively over the last six weeks. That is not necessarily Robinson’s fault, but it doesn’t help his case either.

Noahkai Banks could be an option, but there isn’t anything to suggest he has decided to play for the United States. With him asking out of the final camp before the World Cup roster is named, predicting him making the team is nothing more than wishful thinking.

Tristan Blackmon, George Campbell, and Walker Zimmerman were all called-up in 2025 for limited times. But the fact they weren’t brought back suggests they are backup options now in case of injury.

Of course, Pochettino might bring a fifth central defender but players like Tanner Tessmann or Alex Freeman are just as likely to play in the backline if needed.

8) Sergino Dest9) Alex Freeman10) Antonee Robinson11) Max Arfsten

In the mix: Joe Scally, John Tolkin, Kristoffer Lund

Analysis: At this point, the best guess is that Pochettino will pick who has been calling up, whenever healthy. Sergino Dest, Alex Freeman, Antonee Robinson, and Max Arfsten have all been selected whenever they’re not injured. With that, Dest remains a bit of a wildcard. He has said that he is aiming to return from injury before the end of the season. For now, we think he’ll make it. If not, Scally comes back in.

Joe Scally is a tough omission because he can also play as a central defender in a three-man backline. Then again, so can Tanner Tessmann and Alex Freeman. But Pochettino has never seemed to full trust Scally and even left him out of some of the fall camps. Still, Scally should be there if Dest isn’t fully fit.

On the left side, Robinson is healthy – for now. Arfsten has had defensive liabilities but is good at getting forward. But Arfsten has been the preferred option when Robinson hasn’t been healthy. With John Tolkin injured (although it is unclear his timetable for return) and Kristoffer Lund having never been in the picture, Arfsten should certainly be there.

There is also Tim Weah, who could start at right back, right wing, or even left back. He is listed as a winger here, but that doesn’t mean he isn’t a fullback option.

12) Tyler Adams13) Tanner Tessmann14) Johnny Cardoso15) Sebastian Berhalter16) Christian Roldan

In the mix: Aidan Morris, Yunus Musah

Analysis: This is the deepest area of the player pool and the place where the most difficult picks will be made.

Among those on the team, Tyler Adams is as close to a lock as anyone outside Richards or Pulisic. If central defense is a weakness, Adams can help alleviate that more than anyone as he is a very useful shield to the backline and he is a great disrupter. Tanner Tessmann has been singled out for his “brain” – which helps in his versatility to help in central defense if needed.

Johnny Cardoso only played 45 minutes for the U.S. team, but he was decent as the rest of the team struggled. He is yet to have a big game for the USMNT, but his club resume should be enough. Sebastian Berhalter was up and down in March but he is playing well for Vancouver and has had good moments for the U.S. team over the past year. Plus, he is an excellent free kick taker.

That leaves us with Cristian Roldan, who Pochettino likes and has singled out as a good teammate who adds value on a big 26-player roster.

The toughest omission here would be Aidan Morris, who has been consistently good for Middlesbrough. The problem for Morris is that he might be redundant with Tessmann, Cardoso, and Adams.

As for Yunus Musah, he seems like a longshot at this moment given his terrible season in Italy where his loan to Atalanta just hasn’t yielded meaningful minutes. He will still only be 27-years-old at the next World Cup but he needs to develop. Right now, at 23, he’s essentially the same players as he was at 19, but only rustier for not having played. He needs to make smart decisions this year about the next steps in his career. But it is hard to believe that a World Cup starter as a teenager could be left off the team four years later.

17) Weston McKennie18) Brenden Aaronson19) Malik Tillman20) Diego Luna

In the mix: Gio Reyna, Jack McGlynn

Analysis: This is an area of the field where it is difficult to predict given the inconsistency of the players. Weston McKennie has had a great season and can play in several different positions but seems the most valuable to this team further up the field. Brenden Aaronson is has also had a good season for Leeds although Pochettino has never been completely sold (leaving him off the 2025 Nations League roster and giving him only limited minutes at the Gold Cup and this past March window). But Aaronson is an energetic player who brings needed intensity to games.

Malik Tillman has not had a great season for Bayer Leverkusen, and has been considered a disappointment given the $40 million price tag paid for him last year. But he has done enough to be part of the team.

Then there is Diego Luna, who Pochettino said in March was struggling in his return from an injury. Luna was subsequently left off the March roster. But that seemed to be a direct challenge to Luna, and Luna has responded nicely – playing well after club play resumed after the window.

That brings us to Gio Reyna, a player who has been the center of much debate regarding his status on the U.S. team. In the end, the results speak for themselves. He is not playing for Borussia Monchengladbach. He hasn’t played much over the last four years. Pochettino brought him into the team for March, and while his minutes were limited, he didn’t stand out.

Maybe something changes in the weeks ahead and he beings to play and produce for M’Gladbach. Absent that, there just isn’t a lot there. Meanwhile, players such as Luna, Aaronson, and even Alex Zendejas are playing more, honing their craft, and building an affirmative case.

In the mix: Josh Sargent, Brian White, Damion Downs

Analysis: This area of the pool saw a shift in recent weeks with the injury to Patrick Agyemang. That opens the door for another player, although another center forward isn’t necessarily needed with Folarin Balogun and Ricardo Pepi as established producers and Haji Wright able to play both on the wings and as a center forward.

Should another injury arise, distant options like Josh Sargent, Brian White, or Damion Downs become likely.

Christian Pulisic’s tough run of form thus far in 2026 remains the team’s top story heading into the World Cup. He’s a lock to make the team but success of the team likely hinges on him returning to top form. All other talk about who makes the final roster is largely irrelevant unless Pulisic can be Pulisic.

Tim Weah could feature on either side at fullback or winger, but he is a good player within this squad and has had a good season with Marseille where he has been a regular starter.

Alex Zendejas would be a surprise inclusion, but the stars could be aligning nicely for him. He is having a great year for Club America, he would bring a nice left foot to the mix, he is well-liked, and he did well in his most recent call-up (last September). Plus, the team could use another winger or a player who could play multiple roles.

My take is that there aren’t many open spots. It is essentially these 26 players plus Miles Robinson, Noahkai Banks, Joe Scally, Aiden Morris, and Gio Reyna. That makes 31 players with a realistic shot. The other players listed only come into the mix if there is an injury or if something drastic happens.

On the roster, Zendejas represents the biggest stretch given he has not been with the team since September. But he seems like a good bet given that he’s playing well, he’s versatile, and he brings a left foot.

Regardless, roster projects shift and change on a weekly basis. That’s likely to continue right up until the team is named. Players on the “bubble” just need to play well.As for team success, it is fun to debate over the margins of the roster and which players will make the team with the final spots, but ultimately team success will come down to how well the top players perform and whether the goalkeeper can make big saves. Down the stretch, it is most important to keep an eye on Pulisic, McKennie, Adams, Richards, and Freese. The U.S. team's success hinges on them.
