THERE WAS PLENTY of storylines to cover this weekend in the world of Americans abroad. We saw some good performances, some bad performances, and some important performances. Gio Reyna made his debut at Borussia Monchengladbach and Ricardo Pepi had a big, big day.

Let’s break it down starting with the top stories.

Ricardo Pepi was the top American performing player in Europe this weekend and the center forward finally looks like himself – for the first time since his January injury. Earning the start in an away match at NEC Nijmegen. In a 5-3 win for PSV, Pepi scored the first goal in the 12th minute and then he struck again in the 29th minute to put PSV up 4-1.

Everything about this is good. Pepi is an elite Eredivisie forward who can score in different ways, as this game showed. His first goal was one of his lightening fast turn-arounds, and his second goal was a perfect header, preceded by nice movement.

PSV has some concerns right now, but Pepi should help this team continue to score goals.

Pepi’s return to top form also puts a lot of pressure on the USMNT striker pool. Pepi and Balogun seem to be at the top. Everyone else is fighting just to remain in the mix to make the broad roster, including Josh Sargent who is one of the top forwards in the Championship.

Also in this game, Sergino Dest played all 90 minutes – which is the most important thing for him. He is a top Eredivisie player and is generally always good in league games for PSV. On Saturday, he assisted on the second goal to Ruben van Bommel. But Dest, once he is fully fit, will be a huge weapon for PSV and the USMNT.

Gio Reyna made his Borussia Monchengladbach debut on Sunday as he earned the start in a 4-0 loss away against Werder Bremen. There is good news and bad news to take away from this game and his performances.

Reyna had a few moments where he played well, and his passing typically resulted in the best offensive moments for Borussia Monchengladbach. For those looking to see if he will return to being a promising player, start there.

But defensively, he has a ways to go. He’s also looked very tired in the second half before being subbed out in the 75th minute after his team conceded a penalty to fall behind 3-0.

Overall, he has a way to go, and the demands of the Bundesliga require more fitness and more defense. But his strong points remain strong.

A problem, however, could be Borussia Monchengladbach itself. This team is not good and they have yet to score a goal in their first three Bundesliga games. Standing out on a team battling relegation isn’t easy.

Joe Scally did not get off the bench for M’Gladbach, although he was injured in a friendly during the international window and that might have played a part in it. He is another American who is under pressure to play better because the evidence points to Alex Freeman has having overtaken him on the USMNT depth chart.

Coventry hosted Norwich on Saturday in the fifth round of matches in the Championship. As expected, Josh Sargent started for Norwich and Haji Wright started for Coventry.

The game ended 1-1, and it was Haji Wright who was in the right place at the right time to ta in a stoppage time equalizer. The play began with a botched Norwich clearance that then allowed a Coventry shot from Simms. The save was deflected across the mouth of the goal for Wright to score while falling down.

Haji Wright’s equaliser in stoppage time to secure us a valuable home point. ???? pic.twitter.com/Hlh23pt26U

Coventry is likely not happy with the result, despite the late equalizer. The club outplayed Norwich and had a 28-4 advantage in shots. They botched numerous quality chances and had 64% possession in the game. Wright’s goal was more reflective of a Norwich screwup than of a quality play from Coventry.

Still, Wright continues to be very good at this level and getting into the right place is a skill.

Josh Sargent, meanwhile, went 84 minutes for Norwich but couldn’t get anything going. His USMNT hopes took a big hit over the international window as he didn’t play well and other strikers likely passed him.

Middlesbrough dropped their first points of the season but still remain in first place of the Championship with 13 points from five games following a 2-2 draw away to Preston North End on Saturday. The game was 1-1 until late when Preston North End scored in the 88th and Boro equalized late in stoppage time.

Aidan Morris continues to play an important role for Boro as he led the game in touches (86) and was 63/67 in passing. Physically, he stood up as he was fouled four times (while committing none) and was 6/10 in ground duels.

In terms of acquisitions, Boro is very happy with the money they paid to the Columbus Crew to get Morris and Morris will have them in a promotion race all season.

In terms of the USMNT, Morris is a strong candidate to be in the mix for October. From there, it will be about performing well for the team.

AFC Bournemouth have an impressive nine points from their first four games in the Premier League following Saturday’s 2-1 win over Brighton & Hove Albion.

Despite starting both games over the international window, Tyler Adams went 90 minutes in this game and was a workhorse in the middle of the field, especially defensively. He covered ground, put pressure on Brighton players, and was very important to the win.

The feeling we have watching Tyler play pic.twitter.com/o4oYNQdHjK

It’s like whenever the USMNT wins a game and it becomes hard to see how it was possible without Adams. He’s everywhere and he fits the system very well.

James Sands is playing at a very high level right now for St. Pauli in the Bundesliga and that was on display again on Sunday in a 2-1 win over Augsburg where St. Pauli fell behind early, but equalized just before the half before finding a winner in the 77th.

Sands, 25, put up outstanding stats in this game. Over 90 minutes, he was 7/7 in aerials, 7/11 in ground duels, and had five tackles.

For those wondering about when Sands began taking his game to another level, it was in 2023 after he returned to New York City after a loan to Rangers. He told NYCFC that he didn’t want to play central defense anymore and instead wanted to focus on being a defensive midfielder (after spending his whole career floating between the two positions).

Since his focus on being a defensive midfielder in 2023, he has seen his game rise to new levels. In 2024, he was a top MLS defensive midfielder and in 2025 he immediately performed well in the Bundesliga.

As for the USMNT, it is going to be tough for him since he has yet to play for Mauricio Pochettino, due to his injury. There is a lot of competition at his position, but it is hard to argue that he shouldn’t be given at least one look.

Also in this game, Noahkai Banks did not get off the bench for Augsburg. Perhaps he would benefit from being allowed to play at the U-20 World Cup and given possibly five or more very competitive games.

Outside of Adams and Bournemouth, there were other Americans involved in the Premier League.

Chris Richards went the distance for Cystal Palace in a 0-0 home draw with Sunderland on Saturday. Richards played on the right side of a three-man backline (where he played in the middle for the USMNT against Japan). He didn’t really stand out too much, but keeping a clean sheet means he did his job.

Brenden Aaronson started for Leeds United in a 1-0 away loss to Fulham on Saturday. Aaronson went 77 minutes and was subbed out with the game scoreless. Fulham ended up winning in stoppage time.

For Aaronson, it was a very encouraging performance. His aggressive defense and his frantic attack movements made him one of the best Leeds players on the day. When he was subbed out, Fulham were better in the attack.

???? Chance! Stach finds Aaronson with a low cross who flicks it towards goal but Leno makes the save. 0-0 pic.twitter.com/MHf9xTUusC

Aaronson needs to continue to play well for Leeds. For whatever reason, he appears to be on the wrong side of the USMNT bubble right now. But he can get back inside and he does bring the energy that Pochettino wants.

Also in this game, Antonee Robinson was unused for Fulham. It is concerning and getting a read on his health and fitness is tough.

Ehtan Horvath made two saves but conceded three goals for Sheffield Wednesday in a 3-0 loss at home to Bristol City. Through five games, Sheffield Wednesday has just one point. The only team below them are rivals Sheffield United who have lost all five games to start the season. It’s going to be a long season for Horvath.

Patrick Agyemang made his Derby County debut when he came off the bench in the 69th minute away against West Bromwich Albion and was awarded an assisted (although it was fortuitous) for the game’s only goal in the 84th minute. For a player who made a move over the summer and was dealing with an injury since then, Agyemang played well and should eventually work his way into the starting lineup. Derby needs him as this was the club’s first win of the season. But Agyemang should succeed at this level.

Up and running. ???????? @Patrick_Agyy pic.twitter.com/Wrz5TWPx4N

Meanwhile, Daryl Dike remains out injured for West Brom.

Charlie Kelman earned the start for Charleton Athletic in a 1-1 draw against Millwall. Kelman hasn’t found the back of the net this season despite being the leading scorer in League One last year. He wasn’t able to generate much in this game before getting pulled in the 61st minute.

Also in this game, Damion Downs did not play for Southampton and Caleb Wiley is still looking for his debut for Watford.

Weston McKennie started for Juventus in a high-profile matchup against Inter Milan on Sunday. Juventus won a thrilling game 4-3 with McKennie subbed out in the 79th minute, just two minutes after Inter Milan took a 3-2 lead. The USMNT veteran was not on the field for the last two Juventus goals.

It was a tough assignment for McKennie who played on the left side of the midfield and was tasked with defending Denzel Dumfries. To that end, he did well as Dumfries did not stand out. McKennie also made some nice runs into the attack and was part of some dangerous build-ups.

Overall, it was a good performance from McKennie when measured by what he was asked to do. Does this mean McKennie’s spot in the starting XI is secure? No. It is still tough to read how he will be used this year. But for now, this was a good game even if he left the field with his team trailing.

Yunus Musah made his debut for Atalanta in a 4-1 blowout win over Lecce. Musah entered the game in the 76th minute with his team winning 4-0. He nearly had a highlight in his debut when he thought he assisted on a goal to make it 5-1, but it was later called back for offside in the build-up. Overall, the completed 13/15 of his passes albeit against a team that was resigned to defeat. Finding a space in the starting XI won’t be easy, but it was a nice short shift for Musah and he can build from this.

Christian Pulisic came off the bench in the 65th minute for AC Milan in a 1-0 win over Bologna on Sunday. While the goal had already been scored when he entered, Pulisic was dangerous during his time on the field and created several chances to double the lead. His best moment came in the 78th minute when he beat three players off a dribble before being taken off the ball for what he appealed for a penalty. AC Milan isn’t great right now, but Pulisic continues to be arguably their best player.

In Italy’s second tier, Gianluca Busio left the field in the 77th minute in what he thought was a very good performance against Pescara as his Venezia held a 2-0 lead on the road at that time. Unfortunately, Venezia’s defense collapsed and had to settle for a 2-2 draw – which has them in seventh place.

Jonathan Klinsmann and Cesena defeated Sampdoria 2-1 on the road to move into third place although the recent USMNT call-up did not have to make a single save in this game.

Andrija Novakovich was an unused substitute for Reggiana in a 0-0 away draw at Juve Stabia.

Kristoffer Lund started for Cologne at left back in a wild 3-3 draw at Wolfsburg on Sunday. Lund was subbed out in the 78th minute with Cologne down 2-1. But in 14 minutes of stoppage time, Cologne scored twice and Wolfsburg scored once. It was a decent performance from Lund but he did not stand out.

Cole Campbell came off the bench for Borussia Dortmund in the 74th minute of a 2-0 win over Heidenheim. He was feisty with his speed but didn’t make much of an impact. But it was good to see him get on the field. The U-20 World Cup is approaching and we will find out soon if BVB will release him to play there – where he is a starter.

Lennard Maloney went unused for Mainz in a 1-0 loss at home to RB Leipzig. Maloney is still in search of a role within the team.

John Tolkin was once again very good for Holstein Kiel as he has been every game this season. Tolkin went all 90 minutes at left wingback in a 1-0 win away over Schalke. He was a menace getting forward and he created multiple chances to score while also drawing three fouls.

Don’t be surprised if Tolkin is subject to transfer rumors this winter if Holstein Kiel is not in a good spot in the standings.

Das sieht doch gut aus bislang ????????_22. | 0:1 | #S04KSV #KielAhoi pic.twitter.com/GCoqdy7cI0

Santiago Castaneda also had a very good performance for Paderborn in a 1-0 win over Bochum. The 20-year-old defensive midfielder from Tampa is certainly an American player to watch in the coming years. He typically doesn’t get forward much, but he is a disciplined player deep in the midfield who fits well into Paderborn’s system. Paderborn sits eighth after this weekend.

With several Americans playing well in Germany’s second tier to start the season, Mael Corboz might be the top-performing American in the 2.Bundesliga. The 30-year-old midfielder from New Jersey scored the second goal for Arminia Bielefeld in a 2-0 win over Magdeburg to move his club into third place. Corboz is Arminia Bielefeld’s captain and was the 3.Liga player of the season last year. He was instrumental in their run to the German Cup final in May. His rise since turning 30 is remarkable.

Johan Gomez played 90 minutes for Eintracht Braunschweig in a 2-1 loss away to Darmstadt.

Julian Green played the last 17 minutes while Max Dietz is injured for Greuther Furth in an ugly 3-0 loss at home to Kaiserslautern

For Americans in France, it was about red cards and collapses. Three of the league’s four American players were involved in games with red cards and two saw their team collapse in ugly losses.

Folarin Balogun continues to be very strong following his return from injury. He scored just before the international break and then he played well for the U.S. team. On Sunday, Balogun picked up an assist on the first goal of the game in the 45th minute of a 2-1 win over Auxerre. He was subbed out in the 65th minute while Monaco held a 1-0 lead.

Overall, Balogun was dangerous but he missed a few good chances to score goals of his own. But he is still in the progress of getting back into form and he is on a good path to doing that.

Tim Weah went 61 minutes for Marseille in a 4-0 romp over a bad Lorient team that was reduced to 10 men in the 10th minute. Weah was subbed out with his team up 3-0 and the USMNT winger forced a good save in the 45th minute when he got a header on frame. There isn’t much to take away from this game for Weah as Lorient was overwhelmed once down a man.

Tanner Tessmann played all 90 minutes for Lyon in a 3-1 away loss to Rennes. Lyon’s Tyler Morton was sent off in the 75th minute with Lyon up 1-0. From that point, Lyon collapsed, and Rennes scored three late goals to win, with the last two coming in stoppage time. Tessman was solid up to Morton’s red card with him playing well on both sides of the ball. He is another player in the running for an October call-up but it will be tough as the center midfield position is the deepest of the pool.

Mark McKenzie played all 90 minutes of Toulouse’s 2-1 loss to Lille on Sunday. Toulouse took a 1-0 lead in the 50th minute but had a player sent off in the 80th minute. They then conceded two goals in stoppage time to lose. Even before the red card, Lille dominated possession (and it finished 70-30 in their favor) and McKenzie spent most of the game being pinned back, where he played on the right side of a three-man backline. McKenzie did well in emergency defending but wasn’t asked to pass much. Lille moved into second with the win while Toulouse is in 10th.

In Scotland, Celtic remained even atop the table with Hearts after a 2-1 away win over Kilmarnock. Cameron Carter-Vickers went all 90 minutes, nearly scored off a set piece with a shot after a 7th minute corner kick, and completed 101/103 of his passes. Celtic was the better team, but it took a penalty in the sixth minute of stoppage time to secure the win. Auston Trusty remained out injured.

Aberdeen and Livingston played to a 0-0 draw. Dante Polvara went the final 18 minutes for the hosts, Aberdeen, while Scott Pittman went 90 minutes for Livingston. Neither American stood out in what was a dull game.

In La Liga, Johnny Cardoso was an unused sub for Atletico in a 2-0 win over Villarreal. It was the first win of the season for Atletico, and it remains to be seen if Cardoso faces competition for minutes or if he was being rested for Atletico’s trip to Liverpool on Wednesday in the Champions League.

In the Eredivisie, Taylor Booth played the last 31 minutes for Twente in a 2-2 draw with NAC Breda. While the team scored twice with him on the field, the Utah native was quiet with only 18 touches and 4/7 in passing. It’s been a tough start to the season for Twente with just four points from five games.

In Portugal, Tondela remained in last place after a 1-0 loss to Alverca over the weekend. Jordan Pefok played the final 13 minutes in his club and league debut. Tondela has scored just two goals from five games this season.

Also in Portugal, attacker Korede Osundina played the final 34 minutes for Casa Pia in a 2-0 win over Arouca on Saturday. Casa Pia sits ninth.

In Belgium’s Pro League, Westerlo handed St. Truiden its first lost of the season with a big 3-0 win on the road. Both right back Bryan Reynolds and right wing Griffin Yow started for Westerlo. Yow scored the second goal of the game when he converted a penalty (drawn by a teammate) just before halftime. Yow was dangerous in his 71 minutes and he hit the post from close range in the 50th minute.

?? 49' ?? DOELPUNT ?? Ferri gaat neer in de zestien en Westerlo krijgt een strafschop. Yow zet zich achter de bal en legt de bal binnen. 0-2! #STVVWES 0??-2?? pic.twitter.com/I54IFaKVgD

Marlon Fossey also had a very good game for Standard Liege in a 1-1 draw with Mechelen where he went 90 minutes and was heavily involved in the attack while making runs forward from the right back position. Standard sits in 12th place with eight points from seven games.

In Greece’s Super League, Erik Palmer-Brown was on the wrong end of a 3-2 loss when he played all 90 minutes in central defense as his Panathinaikos dropped a 3-2 loss to Kifisia. Nicholas Gioachini was unused for Asteras Tripolis in a 2-2 draw with Larissa.

In Poland, Aziel Jackson played the final 30 minutes for Jagiellonia Bialystok in a 1-1 draw with Piast Gliwice. Leon Flach was unused.

In Austria, Altach defeated LASK 1-0 with George Bello having a tough game at left back in the loss, before he was subbed out in the second half. Samuel Adeniran played the last seven minutes for LASK, which is even on points for last place – three points in six games.

In Uruguay’s Primera, fourth-place Boston River played Racing to a 0-0 draw. Agustin Anello started at right wing and played 79 minutes.
