HAPPY THURSDAY TO ALL ASN Readers! As the week draws to a close, here is the latest news in American soccer with news of transfers, failed transfers, and other news both on and off the field.

For now, let’s start in Germany

It has been awhile since we had an update on Noahkai Banks at Augsburg. The 20-year-old central defender has been a regular with Augsburg since last season and he is a long-time veteran of the U.S. youth national team system.

Last March, however, Banks opted to remove himself from consideration for the U.S. national team and its World Cup campaign as he was undecided whether he would play for Germany or the United States.

New Germany manager Jurgen Klopp watched his game over the weekend and Bild reported that U.S. national team head coach Mauricio Pochettino also recently spoke with Banks. The report also indicated that Banks is primarily speaking with the staff for Germany’s U-21 team.

Bild then has this quote from Banks with what he told both U.S. Soccer and the DFB.

"I told both of them that I just wanted to concentrate on the start of the season now. But I know that I have to decide by the next international break or at the latest by the international break after next.”

In other words, Banks will likely decide by November and then the teams can move on. Either way, it will be interesting to see what the fan reaction will be to a player who willing took himself out of World Cup contention when his team needed him the most.

The Championship continued its midweek slate of games on Wednesday and the biggest American news came from Middlesbrough in its 1-1 away draw with Burnley. Sebastian Berhalter and Aiden Morris started while Max Arfsten and Rokas Pukstas were unused substitutes.

Boro took a 1-0 lead in the first half on the first Middlesbrough goal scored by Morris in his 78 games from the club. The excellent strike from distance was set up by Berhalter as the two combined well in the midfield.

That stayed hit ????Some way to open your Boro account, Aidan! ???? pic.twitter.com/a9yj1ADRbq

In the second half, Morris hit the post on a shot from even further out.

Overall, it was a good performance from both Berhalter and Morris who had Boro on the front foot in this game for most of the 90 minutes.

Elsewhere in the Championship, West Bromwich captain George Campell went 90 minutes in central defense in a 1-1 draw with Charlton Athletic.

In the Scottish Premiership, four American players featured for two different teams on Wednesday.

Auston Trusty and Cameron Carter-Vickers both went 90 minutes for Celtic in a 3-0 win over Aberdeen at Celtic Park. Neither were tested much defensively as Celtic controlled possession and had a 12-2 edge in shots on target (22-5 in shots overall).

???? Your Falkirk XI to face Rangers at The Falkirk Stadium this evening.???? Two changes from Saturday.???????? Murrell and Fodrey start.???? Allan on the bench.???? Line-up brought to you by Callendar Pharmacy. pic.twitter.com/S9KO6TqxUI

American attackers CJ Fodrey and Jacob Murrell both started for Falkirk in a 2-1 loss at home to Rangers. Fodrey was subbed out in the 54th minute and Murrell left in the 70th with the score 1-1.

Among the many deals made by MLS teams prior to Wednesday night’s deadline, 2023 and 2025 U.S. U-20 World Cup central defender Joshua Wynder will join the New England Revolution on loan from Benfica through the end of the 2027 “Spring Season” ahead of the calendar year switch. There is no buyout clause in this deal and this will finally give Wynder a chance to play regular first-team minutes.

Closing out the summer transfer window with Joshua Wynder! ????????We have acquired the American center back on a year-long loan from Portuguese club SL Benfica through the end of the 2027 MLS Sprint Season, after securing his Discovery Priority from Nashville SC for $50,000 in… pic.twitter.com/ABsWrNeZpe

The move will also be the latest reunion of head coach Marko Mitrovic with another member of the 2025 U.S. U-20 World Cup team he coached. He is now working with Peyton Miller, Brooklyn Raines, Ethan Kohler, Marco Zambrano, and now Wynder. Only Miller was with the Revolution when Mitrovic was hired. The rest joined after he got there.

The Revolution currently sit fourth in the Eastern Conference. This move has a lot of potential for Wynder as he has a coach who has been succeeding and who clearly believes in him as a player.

Folarin Balogun, 25, will remain with Monaco after the well-publicized collapse of his move to Everton.

Monaco managing director Thiago Scuro opened up about what happened.

“Five minutes before the close of the (English) transfer window… I signed the contract, and Everton signed the contract… At the last moment, the player decided not to sign. And basically, the allegation of Balogun is that: ‘I’m not feeling well by the way the club treated me.’

“‘I’m not feeling well by the way the medical department of Everton brought doubts about my future or my health’. I have nothing, so I’m not comfortable to sign a long contract here’.”

In other words, what a mess. Everton is shorthanded and never received the payout from a player it was prepared to move on from.

On Wednesday, the Philadelphia Union recalled forward Markus Anderson from his loan to Brooklyn FC in the USL Championship and instead sent him to the Danish Superliga with Lyngby.

The Union is a minority owner of Lyngby and the clubs have a partnership agreement where Philly can loan young players to Lyngby to develop. It worked great with PierreThis seems like Philly trying to help struggling Lyngby with more firepower to keep them in the Superliga https://t.co/umwqH7yrdA

As is well documented, Lyngby and the Philadelphia Union have a partnership agreement where the Union can sent players on loan to Denmark to get minutes. Such an arrangement worked out very well with Neil Pierre who helped Lyngby to promotion last season to the Danish Superliga.

But Lyngby has not had an easy start to the Danish Superliga season with no wins, three draws, and three losses in the first six games. Now the Union are going to help by sending Anderson. The Philadelphia native has 6 goals and 4 assists across 1,500 minutes in the USL Championship with Brooklyn FC.

Plus, this puts Anderson into the shop window where maybe Philadelphia can profit from a sale. Lyngby has an option to buy on the loan for Anderson. Anderson’s contract with Philadelphia ends after the 2026 season but the club has options for 2027 and 2028.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, 20-year-old American right back Drew Murray scored the game winning goal on Wednesday for WSG Tirol in a 1-0 win over Austria Vienna.

Murray previously was a member of the San Jose Quakes academy as well as with the Oakland Roots.
