THE UNITED STATES NATIONAL team defeated Australia 2-1 in Colorado on Tuesday night to conclude the October window – leaving the team with two more international windows before final preparations for the 2026 World Cup. It was important for the U.S. team that it picked up another victory to build momentum, but even more important was that it was yet another learning lesson for head coach Mauricio Pochettino and his staff.

The U.S. team did not suffer a loss in this window, which alone is positive step. The changes for this team are not happening dramatically, but they are happening. This window ends with a general feel that the team is better now than at any point since Pochettino took over.

That’s the good news. The concerning news is that the team is not where it needs to be to make a run at the World Cup. The question is whether the team can progress fast enough to get there. Everyone has an opinion on that question, but no one knows.

Against Australia, the U.S. team notched its first comeback win under the Pochettino era. After conceding the opening goal, the U.S. rallied with two well-taken goals in each half from Haji Wright, with Christian Roldan assisting on both goals.

On top of that, the U.S. also had to watch Christian Pulisic leave its game against Australia in the first half with an injury to either his ankle or hamstring. He walked off under his own power without a limp to suggest it was precautionary, but it was a reminder for the U.S. players and coaches that an injury or two can change everything. Despite the loss of Pulisic, who might be the best player in Serie A over the first two months of the season, the U.S. team seemed to raises its level after he left – either through anger or concern.

The #USMNT defeats Australia 2-1- first comeback win of the Poch era- two outstanding finishes from Wright- waiting to hear about the Pulisic injury- Roldan with 2 assists- McKennie did well covering ground, disrupting- Richards stepped up to added needed physicality pic.twitter.com/ehUXmgiL7F

Against Ecuador, the U.S. team also conceded early before Folarin Balogun equalized in the second half after pressing forced an Ecuadorian turnover deep in its half. Tanner Tessmann played Malik Tillman into the box who then slid it across the goal to Balogun.

Between both games, there were big learning lessons. Here were some of the key takeaways.

Three in the back is now likely

There are not many chances to have this team together before the World Cup. In the limited games that Pochettino has, he has used a three-man backline in the last three games. It’s no longer an experiment and it’s no longer an option the coach wants to have. All evidence suggests that his is the preferred option.

There is no reason to think otherwise after the team struggled for all of 2025 but now has two wins and a draw since switching to this formation.

There is still plenty of work to do as Pochettino adjusts to the use of this formation. Mainly it becomes about roster construction.

This team has been thin on the number of central defenders Pochettino trusts. Meanwhile, there has been an abundance of central midfielders who are playing well at the club level and are making a strong case to be part of the team.

Woke up with a W. ???? pic.twitter.com/vcEussTAs5

With three in the backline, Pochettino needs to use another central defender while likely dropping a central midfield. In other words, it runs counter to his comfort zone within the roster.

In this camp, Pochettino took his first steps away from Tim Ream to explore other options to go alongside Chris Richards – who is now indispensable to this team. Ream is a very safe bet to be on the team next summer, but given his age, Pochettino likely felt the need to continue to look at players. Miles Robinson started both games here while Mark McKenzie was also given a full 90 minutes against Australia. Meanwhile, Cameron Carter-Vickers didnot see the field.

There is likely more clarity in central defense. Pochettino is setting himself up for a November window where he will likely go with three in the backline at least one of the games. He is likely going to need five central defenders on the roster. Ream, Richards, and Robinson should be there. McKenzie is likely. The fifth is up in the air and the fact Carter-Vickers didn’t play should indicate that there is room for another to compete. That still could be a player such as Walker Zimmerman.

What’s also important about this formation is that it should allow Sergino Dest and Antonee Robinson to thrive, and neither played any minutes at this camp. But they like to get forward, and this formation allows them to do it.

But right now, the backline portion looks like it is ready for them.

The scariest thought right now in defense is that it is a mystery how this team will be able to compete effectively without Chris Richards?

Balanced Intensity Needed

The U.S. team conceded the opening goal in each game this window. Against Ecuador, it was on a counterattack after Enner Valencia used a smart touch to create an opening past Richards. Against Australia, it was a total lack of defensive focus off a throw-in.

The good news for the U.S. team is that for long stretches in the second half, the run of play was almost lopsided in their favor for long stretches.

It’s good the U.S. team found ways to wake up, and the team was impressive once it did. But it must be better from the start. Realistically, quality opponents will always have good stretches in games. But the U.S. team can let being in a hole (or wait for its best player in Pulisic to leave the game injured) before it raises its level.

"The effort from the players was fantastic."Mauricio Pochettino wraps up the October window. ???? pic.twitter.com/7TUpr4Ctk0

It was clear when the U.S. found its way into the game. Richards was very important to this as his tackles and physicality inspired his teammates. Roldan was important as he also played hard. Weston McKennie covered a ton of ground to make his presence felt all around the field.

Despite needing the intensity there from the start, the window was still positive in terms of effort, intensity, and heart. This was a huge improvement from the Nations League or the pre-Gold Cup friendlies. Those moments left questions about whether this group had the necessary character inside of them anymore.

Now the team has shown it has what Pochettino wants. It’s just about getting it there from the start of games to overwhelm opponents.

Stock Up

More players on this roster helped their case this past window – if they played.

Haji Wright: Prior to this window, the likelihood is that Wright was going to make the World Cup team. His best bet would have been as backup winger to Weah and Pulisic, with Balogun or Ricardo Pepi starting up top. But Wright was outstanding against Australia with his movement, strength, and finishing ability. The first goal was a well-timed run. The second saw him use skill on the ball to create a shot. He was playing as the No. 9, and not as a winger.

Wright’s performances gives Pochettino more pathways to use him. Weah can be used as a wingback, which necessitates using another winger. Or, Wright can cut inside and play as another forward with Balogun.

After this window, we are far more likely to see Wright on the field as opposed seeing him on the roster as a backup winger.

Heads up free kick from Roldan to get it to Wright as he’s running into Australia’s box. Another perfect finish from Wright 2 goals for Wright2 assists for Roldan pic.twitter.com/dHC5R3lT5h

Tanner Tessmann: The Alabama midfielder has had a great year in 2025 with Lyon. But despite his club success, he had yet to build a compelling case for the USMNT. He was under a lot of pressure this window because other midfielders like Aidan Morris, James Sands, and Johnny Cardoso all were building similarly strong cases. In this camp, Tessmann set himself apart from the others.

Against Ecuador, Tessmann wasn’t great at the start but raised his game throughout the full 90 minutes. He helped set up the first goal and by the end, he was a driving force to the U.S. team dominating. Against Ecuador, Tessmann didn’t have as many touches as he would like but he was very solid defensively.

As of now, he moved past Morris, Sands, and maybe even Cardoso who hasn’t played significantly with the team much.

Christian Roldan: The long-time Seattle Sounder veteran might just find his way into another USMNT roster with a strong camp that saw a decent sub appearance against Ecuador followed by a performance against Australia where he was the second-best American on the field behind only Wright. In addition to the two assists, he was an “effort” guy who had good numbers on tackles, recoveries, and covering ground. Every roster is a battle to make right now, but Roldan should be there in November.

Nice goal from the #USMNT to equalize. McKennie advances the nicely ball to Roldan. Roldan hits a nice pass to Wright for a classy finish. Hoping the injury to Pulisic is precautionary#USMNT has stepped it up pic.twitter.com/OhNI7Sztp3

Miles Robinson: The FC Cincinnati central defender wasn’t tested terribly much but he did enough in training to earn two starts. At a time when Pochettino only seemed to trust Richards or Ream, Robinson might be a third option right now – which is, of course, needed in a three-man backline. Having only recently come back from an injury, Robinson was rusty but ultimately competent.

Folarin Balogun: The Monaco forward was the MOTM against Ecuador and he continued to boost his stock after a good September camp. The big threat for Balogun has been what happens when Pepi returns? Now he also has competition from Wright. But right now, Balogun is the team’s starting forward until someone takes that job from him.

Weston McKennie: The versatile Juventus man began the process of resetting the narrative on his USMNT form. The last 18 months have not been a good time for McKennie with the U.S. team as he was poor in the Copa America and then at the Nations League this past March. He hasn’t been with the team since. In these two games, McKennie played in an attacking role that gave him a lot of freedom to roam. This window was the best he looked for the USMNT in a long time.

Does this fit McKennie’s strengths? It’s tough to say because he can thrive sitting deep and hitting long diagonals to switch the point of attack. But his ability to hit through-balls is also top-notch and you could see that on the first USMNT goal when he played Roldan into a dangerous spot – who then set up Wright.

Stock Down

The players who are in a worse position after this window are a mix of players who remained on the bench these games, players who saw only a limited minutes, and players who were not on this roster but who saw their competition thrive.

Cameron Carter-Vickers: Pochettino brought five central defenders into this camp but Carter-Vickers did not play. In addition, Alex Freeman even saw time in the backline during parts of the Ecuador game. Pochettino has known Carter-Vickers for a decade dating back to when he coached him at Tottenham but never found minutes for him (instead sent him on what would be a string of six loans). At this point, the Celtic veteran seems like a distant backup on this team, at best.

Matt Turner: Matt Freese continued to be the starter on this team. While Turner has impressive experience having started World Cup and Copa America games, he was a backup at the Gold Cup, not included in September, and was a backup again this window. If Turner is going to reclaim his starting job, time is running out.

Aidan Morris: the Middlesbrough central midfielder played in both games this window. He wasn’t bad at all, but at a time when Roldan hit two assists, Tessmann looked ready, and McKennie (albeit in a different position) looked like his former self – Morris needed to be better than he was. This is the most competitive area of the player pool, and other players have had better windows.

Josh Sargent: Sargent was not on this roster after a lackluster September camp, but his pathway to a World Cup spot seems very narrow. Balogun passed him in September. Wright also passed him in October. Pepi hasn’t been with the team in 2025 due to injury, but he impressed Pochettino in 2024. The only good news for Sargent is that Patrick Agyemang didn’t play this window, and Damion Downs hasn’t done anything yet for Southampton.

Patrick Agyemang: the Derby County forward did not play this window and was left on the bench both games. Meanwhile, Wright and Balogun scored. It is an uphill climb for him to make the team.

Johnny Cardoso: the Atletico Madrid midfielder wasn’t on this roster due to injury, but he still has work to do in making the team because he has never really played like he has fit in well with the USMNT. His club form has never quite translated to the national team. The problem for Cardoso is that other central midfielders have started to play well, there are fewer central midfielders used in the current formation, and time is now running out with only two more camps. He will probably get another look with the USMNT, but he is now under a lot of pressure to play well.

Yunus Musah: Like Cardoso, central midfield is tougher to crack right now. The problem with Musah is that he hasn’t been injured and also hasn’t been with the team since March. He needs to play for Atalanta and he needs to contribute offensively.

Looking to November

The final window of 2025 and the second to last international window before the World Cup will take place in just a few weeks.

It seems like the player pool is narrowing and the roster will be hard to make for a lot of players who haven’t impressed with the U.S. team recently. Players who are healthy but who haven’t been involved with the U.S. team recently might only come back into play if there are injuries. This includes players like John Tolkin, Joe Scally, Damion Downs, Kristoffer Lund, and Josh Sargent.

A look back at last night's win in Colorado to close out the October window! ?Next up is Paraguay on November 15th! ????? https://t.co/7Bhys6E2N8 pic.twitter.com/3rPJn7xjmV

There are some players who have been away for most of the year but who might come back into play given their level or the competition. Johnny Cardoso, Yunus Musah, and Ricardo Pepi are still in the mix but have seen their competition succeed. They might be given the chance to match that. A player like Walker Zimmerman could also sneak back into the next roster given the need for a fifth central defender.

Pochettino is laying out his vision in front of us. Those players who played well in this window are almost certain to come back. Given the results of the past week, that is most players. There will be changes to the roster from October, but not many. Players will have to raise their game to get a call-up and then play well to keep it.
