THE WEEKEND FOR Americans Abroad was once again mixed. The best performers were, outside of Tyler Adams and Sergino Dest, outside of the top group of players. But the progress shown by players like DeAndre Yedlin, Josh Sargent, Chris Richards, and Matt Miazga remains positive and important.Among the top core, many were quiet. Weston McKennie and Christian Pulisic were quiet off the bench. John Brooks was suspended and Gio Reyna didn't contribute much to Dortmund's win. After that group, however, there was still a lot of news to break down in the large number of Americans player abroad these days.

There is a lot to cover today, so let’s jump right into what I saw from the games.

Tyler Adams had a huge opportunity in front of him on Saturday when he not just earned the start for RB Leipzig at home against Borussia Monchengladbach but rather earned the start in central midfield in his preferred No. 6 position.

The game started off rough for Leipzig which fell behind 2-0 in the 19th minute. But Leipzig began to take control of the game and mounted a comeback to win it with goals in the 57th minute, the 66th minute, and then with a dramatic winner from Alexander Soerloth in the third minute of stoppage time.

The win was critical for Leipzig to keep pace with Bayern Munich, trounced Koln 5-1 early on Saturday. Leipzig remains two points behind the European champions.

Tyler Adams had his best important game of the season. He’s played well in 2020/21 but this was his best statement so far to be the team’s starting defensive midfielder.

His numbers accurately reflected an incredibly busy and effective day.

126 touches indicate Adams was the lynchpin. His touchmap shows that he was truly everywhere across the field. He covered an incredible amount of ground and there are few people that have the engine that Adams does.

This was a big effort from Adams in a big win. Now it will be interesting if it sees Adams take on this role with Leipzig more consistently.

On the national team, Adams is indispensable at this position. There are some decent emerging defensive midfielders like Andres Perea, Jackson Yueill, Johnny Cardoso, Owen Otasowie, Chris Durkin, and others. But not many who can do what Adams does in terms of covering the amount of ground that Adams does.

After a rough few week in the midst of a tough season, Josh Sargent had his best game of 2020/21 when he scored a goal and was consistently dangerous for Werder Bremen in a 2-1 upset win over Eintracht Frankfurt.

The St. Louis native was dangerous throughout and scored his third of the season in the 62nd to break a 1-1 draw. It turned out to be the winning goal in the 2-1 victory.

Sargent’s numbers in the game were excellent.

Josh Sargent: Raw # for Werder Bremen in 2-1 win over Eintracht79 minutes41 touches2 shots1 goal0 key passes14/23 passing (61%)9/15 duels won2 clearances3 dribbles (3 attempts)1x fouled0 tackles0 fouls4/4 aerials won- Best game of the season for Sargent #USMNT

This was easily Sargent’s best game of the season and he was even better than his numbers suggest. Here is why:

Werder Bremen is comfortably sitting midtable and the pressure of a relegation battle is off. Despite the lack of goals this season, Sargent has played well in certain areas of the game – such as winning duels, aerials, and pressing effectively to force turnovers. With this game, Sargent put it all together with offensive production while also continuing with passing well and winning duels and aerials.

It always seemed that Sargent’s lack of scoring was due to a lack of confidence and once he broke through, goals would come with regularity. Werder Bremen manager Florian Kohfeldt has publicly stated that he believes Sargent will eventually become one of the best strikers in the Bundesliga.

Sargent should feel more confident after this one and it wouldn’t be surprising if this was the starting of a positive turn for him.

No other American player has had as positive of a month in February as DeAndre Yedlin. Last month he was glued to Newcastle United’s bench. In February, he is a starter for Turkish leaders Galatasaray and has turned in a pair of big efforts in the Super Lig to end February.

On Saturday, Yedlin earned the start for Galatasaray against Erzurum BB and was once again a big contributor on both sides of the ball in a 2-0 win. The right back from Seattle was active on the ball and his touchmap shows that he was frequently pushed deep into the final third to get involved in the offense.

DeAndre Yedlin: raw # for Galatasaray in 2-0 win over Erzurum BB.90 mins79 touches1 shot34/46 passing3 crosses2/2 accurate long balls9/13 duels won1 clearance1 dribble0x fouled2 fouls3 tackles (4 attempts04/4 aerials won2 interceptions#USMNTTouch Map pic.twitter.com/u9xRHwrVM8

On the defensive side, Yedlin won 14/17 in his duels plus aerials. He was effective in breaking up plays and winning possession. On offense, his passing, particularly from distance, was sharp. Last weekend his long-ball assist was one of the highlights of the weekend for American players. In this one, he was mistake-free and solid.

For a U.S. national team perspective, he has helped his case immensely. Reggie Cannon is not in as great of shape as he was in the fall. His minutes have decreased and Boavista is in tough shape in the relegation battle. Meanwhile, Yedlin is on a role in Turkey. Assuming Sergino Dest is the starting right back, Yedlin has made a strong case to be the team’s second right back.

Sergino Dest, 20, has had an up and down month but the U.S. national team right back is ending February on a high note with a very solid performance for third-place Barcelona in a 2-0 away win over fourth-place Sevilla. It was a win that helped Barcelona keep pace with Real Madrid in a race for second in the table.

For Dest, he was far move involved in the attack than he had been in recent games and this allowed him to play to his strengths. In this game, he played more as a wing back than a traditional right back and you can see that nearly half of his touches come inside the attacking third of the field.

But it wasn’t just the statistics, Dest was active with the ball and was aggressive to take on defenders with the dribble and was looking for combinations with midfielders and wingers to get into dangerous positions.

Dest showing off ????????????#SevillaFCBarça pic.twitter.com/dWCJ5HxVTK

Dest played with a confidence that he hadn’t shown in many weeks and the right wingback was role was a welcome tactical change to get him pushed further up into the attack. It worked against one of the best teams in Spain and perhaps it will be a look Barcelona shows going forward – and one that allows Dest to show off his explosive attacking qualities on the right side.

Aron Johannsson, 30, is off to a great start in Poland after joining Lech Poznan this month. Last month, Johannson started against Slask Wroclaw in his debut and scored the winner in a 1-0 victory.

On Friday, the 2014 U.S. national team World Cup veteran scored in the 80th minute against local rivals Warta Pozna?. His equalizer leveled the game 1-1 and Lech Poznan found a late winner for a 2-1 victory. Johannsson has been key addition for Lech Poznan which has moved from 12th into seventh in the top flight Ekstraklasa

Johannsson’s goal, like his goal last weekend, was off a header.

Johannsson’s numbers are outstanding the past six months combining Hammarby and Lech Poznan. He has 14 goals over his last 17 league games - including goals in last four.

It’s hard to say if this will lead him back to the national team. Daryl Dike, Matthew Hoppe, and Jordan Siebatcheu are all younger and also entering into the striker equation. But either way, this is a great story that there is good soccer left in Johannsson and injuries haven’t ruined him. He’s back and playing well. After what he’s been through, he deserves it.

Borussia Dortmund took advantage of a winnable game against relegation battling Arminia Bielefeld on Saturday and posted a 3-0 victory to earn three needed points in its push to move inside the top six Bundesliga.

Gio Reyna, 18, earned the start in this one despite having hit a rough patch the past two months since Lucien Favre was fired. In this game, Reyna wasn’t bad but he was quiet and made little impact. Compared with earlier in the season, he continues to lose the ball too many times while trying to make dangerous plays and his chemistry in combining with Erling Haaland hasn’t been what it was in 2020.

Reyna is benefiting right now from the congested schedule due to Dortmund’s ongoing run in the Champions League. He will likely continue to get his chances and at some point he will break out of it as he is still young and talented. Dortmund is still a great environment for him and getting opportunities at this club as a teenager is invaluable.

Now heading into March, Schalke's woeful season is coming into view as one of the worst Bundesliga teams in recent history. After Saturday's 5-1 loss to VfB Stuttgart, it has won just one of its 23 games in 2020/21. It also currently holds an unthinkable -45 goal differential.

In the loss to Stuttgart, Matthew Hoppe earned the start for Schalke and while the goals have dried up since his five goal/three game run in January, he is still gaining valuable experience. Unfortunately for the California native, defenders are focused in on stopping him because stopping him means stopping Schalke.

Hoppe, 19, is still doing well, however, and in each game he finds ways to be part of dangerous opportunities. If he were on better teams, perhaps these opportunities would result in goals.

In this game, Hoppe had just 13 touches over 74 minutes but still was part of three dangerous opportunities. In the 72nd minute, Hoppe made an impressive turn as he started a dribble into the final third. He then hit a dangerous pass into the box to Amine Harit who drew a penalty. Unfortunately for Schalke, Nabil Bentaleb’s ensuing penalty was saved.

Hoppe has already said he will stay with Schalke next season, even if it is relegation. That remains to be seen if that happens should Schalke receive very strong offers for Hoppe it cannot turn down.

On another note, VfB Stuttgart under American manager Pellegrino Matarazzo has been a true success story and the Fair Lawn, NJ has his team playing in a style that is very attacking, and very fun to watch. After leading the team to promotion last season, Matarazzo’s side is now inside the top 10 in the Bundesliga.

Since Daryl Dike arrived on loan from Orlando, Barnsley has won five Championship games in a row. That has pushed the team on the verge of moving inside the top six and the promotional playoff positions. On Saturday it defeated Millwall 2-1 and Daryl Dike earned the start.

To say this was an ugly game would be an understatement as neither team had any interest in playing through the midfield. It was an old-fashioned “Route 1” Championship game of playing long balls from one end of the field to the other. For example, Barnsley completed just 45% of his passes on the day while Millwall completed 44%.

For Dike, he didn’t have much to work with and lost most of his duels and aerials – most of which he had a low chance of winning. He completed just 4/11 of his passing and didn’t have a shot. But he was busy getting into challenge and drawing defenders.

It is not an easy job for Dike, 20, who has to find ways to help win ugly games under the pressure of promotion. It’s a long way from Orlando but this style will force him to use his big frame even more effectively and creatively. The good news is that Barnsley continues to win and Dike has been part of a winning combination.

Yunus Musah, 18, has had a rough run with Valencia since November. On Saturday, the New York-born midfielder had a tough game in an ugly 3-0 loss to Getafe in La Liga.

In recent weeks, Valencia has done enough to move safely into midtable but it still has not been a good season. Musah rarely plays in the middle of the field, which he prefers, and in this one he was center/left on the midfield. But did not get on the ball much in this one and was one of many Valencia players with a forgettable day.

Like Gio Reyna, Musah is going through learning curves at a young age with a team that is struggling. Like Reyna, he is also very talented and will eventually fight through the current dry spell, even if this weekend wasn’t a step in that direction.

Weston McKennie was on the bench Saturday for Juventus against Hallas Verona and Andrea Pirlo’s team was lethargic from the start against ninth place Hallas Verona. McKennie came into the game in the 68th minute with Juve nursing a 1-0 lead from a 48th minute Cristiano Ronaldo goal. Unfortunately for the reigning champs, Antonin Barak scored in the 77th minute and the game finished 1-1.

It was an uninspired and disappointing result for Juventus which played as if it was running on fumes and it simply lacks scoring options right now outside Ronaldo.

McKennie, 22, wasn't poor but did not offer much in his 22 minutes on the field. He had just 10 touches and was 4/6 in passing. He's had a strong season and the idea was likely to get him rest. But he was brought into the game to see out a 1-0 win, but Juventus did not have the energry or the quality on the day to press for the winner.

After a tough loss to RKC Waalwijk, Heracles returned with an improved effort on Saturday in a 2-2 draw against FC Twente. American midfielder Luca de la Torre had a good game for Heracles in this one on both sides of the ball and his season has been solid as he is a regular starter.

It’s important to observe that over the course of the season he has assumed more responsibilities. In the first few months of 2020/21, de la Torre was deployed as winger – mostly on the left. The past two months, however, de la Torre has moved centrally and into is preferred No. 8 role with Heracles. That move has coincided with the team’s gradual improved play in the Eredivisie.

De la Torre was active in this one. With the ball, his passing was effective and he made few mistakes – and was not responsible for either of the two goals Heracles conceded. Defensively, he was instrumental in closing down on Twente’s passing lanes and his seven interceptions were a team-high.

De la Torre is flying under the radar and if he keeps it up, might not be far down on the U.S. national team depth chart. A call-up for March still seems unlikely but it wouldn’t be all that surprising if there are injuries or poor runs of form for others.

On a related note, Kik Pierre is a dual national who has been mentioned by supporters about being a potential recruit into the U.S system. Born in Boston, Pierre has represented the Netherlands at the youth levels. This was a tough game for Pierre who was partially responsible for both of Heracles goals and his clumsy clearance directly resulted in the second goal for Heracles in the second half.

Coming into 2021, Joel Sonora, 24, had only 12 first-team starts in his career as he was mostly used as an offensive option off the bench. Fortunately for the 2015 U.S. U-20 midfielder, he now has that role locked down for Talleres de Córdoba thanks to the recent starter, Tomás Pochettino, making a move to Austin FC earlier this month.

On Saturday, he not just started but went the full 90 for Talleres in a 2-2 draw with Newell’s Old Boys. With his club down 2-1 in the 84th minute, Sonora assisted on an equalizer from Diego Valoyes. It was a nice side foot pass that played Valoyes into the box. The Colombian made a nice set of moves to get past two defenders, find the shooting lane, and execute a well-placed shot.

Diego Valoyes does the heavy lifting here with his 84th minute equalizer to help Talleres de Córdoba to a 2-2 draw with Newell’s Old Boys in Argentina but 2015 U.S U-20 World Cup midfielder Joel Soñora picks up the assist. pic.twitter.com/7ObTSyJhHO

Since Sonora has emerged as a starter, the club has a 1-1-1 over three games in 2021 in the Copa Diego Maradona. He’s finally in a position to finally start and play regular minutes. So far, he’s done well.

Brenden Aaronson and Red Bull Salzburg dropped a tough 2-1 decision to Sturm Graz to see its lead atop the Austrian Bundesliga reduced to three points. Aaronson played 68 minutes in the win and was pretty good despite leaving with Salzburg down 2-0 when he left.

He was solid pressing, and most of his passing was in attacking positions – where he contributed two key passes (which as passes that lead to direct shots). At times when he was with Philadelphia, he struggled to get a high number of touches but in this game, he was on the ball a decent number at 51 times over 68 minutes.

What cost Salzburg in this one was defensive lapses early with two goals inside the first 22 minutes. After that, Sturm Graz was able to bunker their way until the end – having just 36% possession in this one.

For the first time in his young professional career, Chris Richards has a regular starting spot and thus far he is taking advantage of it and is playing well. Hoffenheim, however, are surely disappointed it didn’t pick up all three points on Sunday in a 1-1 draw at Union Berlin. Hoffenheim outshot Union Berlin 14-5 and were generally the better team. The only Union Berlin goal came from a clumsy penalty conceded by Florian Grillitsch early in the game.

Richards, 20, played well despite picking up a yellow card. He played on the left side of a three-man backline and was on the ball frequently with 98 touches and made only minor mistakes. He completed 67/81 passes and won 3/7 of his aerials and 4/10 of his duels. This is turning out to be an invaluable loan and these minutes will set the stage for him to compete for minutes at Bayern or set the stage for another loan at a high level in 2021/22.

Matt Miazga, 25, and Anderlecht are buzzing after a 3-1 win over Standard Liege on the road. The bitter rivals met on Sunday and Anderlecht boasted a three-player backline of former New York Red Bull players with Michael Murillo, Kemar Lawrence, and Miazga.

Miazga was a physical presence in the back and this was a tough game for Anderlecht – which had just 35% possession. It put a lot of stress on the team’s backline and Miazga was forced into a lot of emergency defending, where he was successful.

Matt Miazga with a big performance for Anderlecht in a 2-1 with over rivals Standard Liege. Kompany approved #USMNT pic.twitter.com/NBfMfg51Rf

With the win, Anderlecht moved into fifth place and is now part of a tight group where it trails second place Royal Antwerp by just three points.

It was a huge game for Fulham on Sunday against Crystal Palace and the Cottagers are trying desperately trying to climb out of the relegation hole. Their schedule is difficult and Palace was one of their more winnable games.

Robinson was on the bench to start this game behind Ola Aina but came in to start the second half with the game scoreless.

In the 87th minute, Robinson was involved in the best chance of the game when he made a superb run down the left wing and sent in an accurate pass but the chance was missed by Josh Maja.

Robinson was solid in his 45 minutes where he was on the ball a lot with 36 touches. He was 22/26 with his passing, won 5/6 of his duels, and was successful with both of his dribbles.

With the draw, Fulham remain three points deep in the relegation hole but trail on the goal differential tiebreaker. The next three games are against Tottenham, Liverpool, and Manchester City so things are going to get rough.

On Sunday, Tim Weah and Lille played to a 1-1 draw at home with Strasbourg - a result which saw Paris St. Germain inch closer to the top of Ligue 1.

Tim Weah played the final 29 minutes in this one as was part of a triple substitution in the 61st minute. At the time Lille was trailing 1-0 but Jose Fonte found an 87th minute equalizer.

Regarding Weah, the team was far more dangerous when he arived in the triple substitution. His 21 touches were a high number for him and he played pretty well, even if he was not part of many of the most dangerous chances for Lille. He took two shots but was certainly active. While Weah might not start big games for Lille, this game was an indication why he holds a lot of value off the bench.

Lille still remain atop Ligue 1 but have just a two point lead on PSG and PSG has a huge edge in goal differential. This is going to be very close. Lille has to hope that PSG's struggles with squad rotation due to its ongoing Champions League campaign.

On Sunday, Chelsea played to a 0-0 draw at home against Manchester United. It was a tough result for Chelsea as Manchester United were without Paul Pogba and Edinson Cavani and had just played on Thursday.

Pulisic played pretty well but there wasn’t too much to say about his performance. He didn’t make many mistakes but he also didn’t provide the answer in terms of breaking the game down. In the end, Manchester United’s defense was simply better and Chelsea failed to get the job done.

Fortunately, with West Ham’s loss over the weekend, Chelsea is just one point out of the top four and a Champions League birth is within reach. After the ups and downs of this season, that would be a good thing for the Blues. It is probably only meets the minimum of expectations, but that is better than the alternative.

In Belgium’s top flight, U.S. national team central defender Mark McKenzie came into the game in second half stoppage time for Genk to see out the final few minutes of a 2-1 win over Sporting Charleroi on Friday. On Sunday, Chris Durkin played a full 90 for St. Truiden in a 2-0 loss to Eupen.

In Portugal’s Primeira Liga on Friday, United States national team right back Reggie Cannon did not get off the bench for Boavista in 2-1 loss to Vitoria de Guimaraes.

In the Bundesliga, John Brooks was suspended for Wolfsburg on Saturday and missed out on a 2-0 win over his former club, Hertha Berlin. Wolfsburg’s defense is the best in the Bundesliga having conceded just 19 goals in 23 games. Brooks’ replacement in the starting XI, Marin Pongracic, was sent off in stoppage time due to a second yellow card. With the win, Wolfsburg moved into third place following Eintracht Frankfurt’s loss on Friday to Werder Bremen.

In the 2.Bundesliga, Jann George started and played 80 minutes for Jahn Regensburg in a 1-0 win over Parderborn. On Saturday, Hannover 96 and Greuther Furth played to a 2-2 draw. McKinzie Gainez did not get off the bench for Hannover while Julian Green is still out for Furth due to a positive COVID test. Alfredo Morales did not get off the bench for Fortuna Dusseldorf in a 3-2 loss to Heidenheim on Sunday.

In the 3.Liga, Terrence Boyd started and scored his 13th goal of the season for Hallescher in a 2-1 win over Luebeck on Saturday.

In Turkey’s Super Lig on Friday, Mix Diskerud started and played 68 minutes for Denizlispor in 3-0 loss to Besiktas. Tyler Boyd played just the final few minutes of stoppage time for Sivasspor in a 0-0 away draw with Rizespor on Saturday. Sivasspor were reduced to 10 players in the 32nd minute.

In Liga MX, 2015 U.S. U-17 attacker Joe Gallardo started for Queretaro but played only the first half (after Queretaro were reduced to 10 players) in a 3-0 loss to Mazatlan FC. The former Richmond Kicker scored his first goal for Queretaro last weekend since joining the club in January.

In the Premier League on Saturday, Zack Steffen was an unused sub for Manchester City in a 2-1 win over West Ham. The same could be said for U.S. U-20 midfielder Owen Otasowie who did not get off the bench for Wolves in a 1-1 away draw with Newcastle United.

In Scotland's Premiership, Ian Harkes started for Dundee United and picked up an 18th minute assist in a 1-1 draw with Kilmarnock

In the Championship, Cameron Carter-Vickers started and played a full 90 for AFC Bournemouth in a 1-0 win over Watford. With the win, Bournemouth moved back into the playoff positions in sixth place. Carter-Vickers had just 20 touches and was 7/10 passing but that was enough to be part of a cleansheet win.

It was a day to forget for Duane Holmes and Huddersfield. The American started for Huddersfield on Saturday in a 3-0 away loss to Preston North End. It was a very disappointing loss, meanwhile, for promotion contending Swansea City as it dropped a 3-1 decision at home to Bristol City. Paul Arriola did not get off the bench for Swansea in this one. Matthew Olosunde and Rotherham failed to climb out of the relegation zone on Saturday in a 1-0 home loss to Reading. The New Jersey native and right back went the distance in the loss and picked up a yellow card.

In third tier League 1, Lynden Gooch started and played 59 minutes for Sunderland in a 2-2 away draw with Crew Alexandra. In League 2, Indiana Vassilev played the final 25 minutes for Cheltenham Town in a 2-0 away win over Scunthorpe United.

In France's Ligue 2, SM Caen dropped a 2-0 decision at home to Paris FC. U.S. national team attacker Nicholas Gioacchini played a full 90 in the result and picked up a yellow card. The Kansas City native was playing up top in a 4-4-2 and 37 touches, 4 shots, 1 key pass, and was 17/22 in passing. He won 4/12 duels and 3/7 aerials. In general, it was a tough day for everyone at Caen.

In Serie B on Saturday, Andrija Novakovich and Frosinone suffered a brutal 4-0 defeat at the hands of Cremonese and are now four points out of the promotional playoff positions. The Wisconsin native went the distance up top in a 4-4-2 formation.

In the Austrian Bundesliga on Saturday, Andrew Wooten started and played 85 minutes for Admira Moedling in a 1-1 draw with WSG Swarovski Tirol. On Sunday, Austria Vienna defeated SKN St. Poelten 2-0 on the road. Erik Palmer-Brown was injured and missed the game for Austria Vienna. U.S. U-20 midfielder Taylor Booth started and played 90 (and picked up a yellow card) in the loss for St. Poelten. U.S. U-23 midfieler Brandon Servania is yet to make the bench for St. Poelten.

After struggling last weekend, Alan Sonora was moved to the bench for Independiente and went as an unused sub in a 1-0 win over Gimnasia LP in Argentina's Copa Diego Maradona.

In the Danish Superlliga, OB Odense defeated Randers 2-1. U.S. U-23 eligible winger Emmanuel Sabbi scored and had a big game where he played 76 minutes, scored, had three shots, struggled with passing (11/22), but won 10/19 duels, was fouled five times, won four out of six aerials, and was successful in both his dribble attempts.

In Greece's Super League, Gboly Ariyibi played a full 90 for second-to-last place Panetolikos in a 1-0 loss to AE Larissa.

In Spain's Segunda, Shaq Moore started and played a full 90 for Tenerife in a 3-1 win over Alcorcon. With the win, Tenerife moved into 10th place in Spain's second tier.

In the Swiss Super League, Jordan Siebatcheu played the final 26 minutes at forward for runaway leaders BSC Young Boys in a 2-2 draw with Luzern. The Washington, DC forward only had 10 touches in this one and was 4/5 in passing and was held without a shot.

In Hungary's top flight OTP Bank Liga, American right back Henry Wingo was a 78th minute sub for runaway league leaders Ferencvaros in a 2-2 draw with MTK Budapest.
