THERE IS A LOT OF SOCCER going on right now in the United States between the U.S. national team, MLS and other domestic leagues, and the Club World Cup. That doesn’t even start with the other news such as ongoing transfer rumors with American players, injuries, and European preseason news.

ASN was off last week but touched bases with the USMNT. For now, let’s use this morning update to cover the Club World Cup

Inter Miami advanced in the Club World Cup following a 2-2 draw on Monday night with Palmeiras in Florida. Normally, that would be a great result – especially on the heels of a huge win over Porto. On top of that, the Brazilian club dominated the crowd in Miami’s Hard Rock Stadium with an electric atmosphere.

But Miami are sure to feel disappointed given that they had 2-0 lead heading into the 80th minute. In squandering the lead and settling for the draw, it means Miami now faces Paris St. Germain in the round of 16 as the second place finisher in Group A. If they had defeated Palmeiras, they would have won the group and then have been matched up with Botafogo – an excellent team but a step down from a PSG team that is the best in the world right now.

Tadeoooo ????????? Every game live on DAZN ???? pic.twitter.com/pmJ0OTncUq

Overall, Inter Miami played with an intensity that we have not seen from them in the Messi Era in big games. This changes the narrative of the organization since Messi, Suarez, Busquets, and Alba all arrived. Since then, big game defeats have defined them – the CONCACAF loss to Monterrey, the playoff loss to Atlanta, and the CONCACAF loss to Vancouver. Those losses overshadowed the Supporters Shield and League Cup triumphs.

From an American perspective, it was great to see U.S. U-20 midfielder Benja Cremaschi play very well in the win over Porto. The youngster has a great engine and a high soccer IQ that lets him be in the right places at the right times.

El mejor 9?? del siglo dice presente ???????? @FIFACWC @LuisSuarez9 ????: https://t.co/zOQpNK9VfS pic.twitter.com/iYYVKuYjKM

Now Inter Miami can hang its head on being the first MLS team to defeat a European team (of Champions League quality) in meaningful competition and now the first to advance into the knockout stages of a competition with some of the best teams in the world.

Of the three MLS teams that participated in the Club World Cup, only one will advance as Seattle and LAFC failed to get out of the group stage.

Seattle was understandable after being placed in a group with Atletico Madrid, Paris St. Germain, and Botafogo (the Libertadores Champions). Seattle lost all three games but the 2-1 loss to Botafogo was the most disappointing because they outplayed Botafogo for long stretches and better finishing would have guaranteed such a result.

But overall, Seattle did not play poorly across the three games considering the opposition.

Held our own. #SEAvPSG Recap ?? https://t.co/FmdKxnVdEq pic.twitter.com/grfDvlESIf

LAFC lost to Chelsea and played strong defense in the 2-0 loss. It needed a goal against the run of play to make it competitive- but that never came. The 1-0 loss to Tunis of Tunisia was extremely frustrating given that the result was there for the taking but Denis Bouanga missed a stoppage time penalty and the club had two goals called back for offside (which were both preventable).

The games were all competitive, even against very good teams, but the end quality just wasn’t there in these situations. LAFC had it on their foot with the league’s best forward, but he missed.

MLS is improving, but these games weren’t just against European or South American teams, but they were against the best of the best. That is a bridge that is still too far (not just for MLS but for 99% of professional teams in the world). It’s a tough measuring stick because it straight against the top of the ladder.

But for now, Inter Miami will look for a historic upset.

Juventus won its first two games. In its most recent game, the Italian club defeated Wydad Casablanca 4-1. Weston McKennie started but didn't play well, had a bad turnover, and was pulled at the half. Tim Weah didn't get off the bench.

In the opening game, Juve defeated UAE's Al Ain 5-0 with McKennie going the distance and Weah playing the entirety of the second half. It was a good, but not great outing for both USMNT players.

McKennie might have been removed at the half against Casablanca due to a yellow card in the opener and the there is a need to save him for the group stage finale against Manchester City - the winner of that game will finish first in the group.

Capitan Wes ©?????????#FIFACWC #TakeItToTheWorld pic.twitter.com/FTzqILZJj4

Either way, McKennie will be interesting to watch in the coming games and into the start of the Serie A season. His standing within Juventus has been a roller coaster for years.

Borussia Dortmund has four points from its first two games but its American trio of Gio Reyna, Mathis Albert, and Cole Campbell have not gotten off the bench yet.

U.S. U-20 central defender Josh Wynder also has not gotten off the bench for Benfica in its first two games, a 2-2 draw with Boca Juniors and a 6-0 win over Auckland.
