WHEN THE COLUMBUS Crew defeated Monterrey in the home leg of the CONCACAF Champions Cup by a 2-1 score, the lingering question was whether that would be enough to withstand a very difficult road trip to Estadio BBVA. But Wilfried Nancy’s team responded by travelling to Northern Mexico and walking out with a 3-1 win and a 5-2 aggregate victory in what was one of the greatest performances ever by an MLS team.

Of course, this is far from the first time an MLS team has defeated a Liga MX team over two legs in this tournament. And there have been impressive wins in Mexico too (remember Sporting KC’s cleansheet wins in both legs over Toluca in 2019, or the ease at which the Red Bulls downed Tijuana both home and away in 2018). But this was different. This was for a spot in the final, this was against one of the biggest Mexican clubs, this was in a venue that is very difficult to play.

And the context is also impressive. In the quarterfinal, Columbus also got past fellow Monterrey-based Tigres after only drawing at home, and after leading forward Cucho Hernandez was suspended. In the visit to El Volcan, the Crew conceded first after a terrible mistake but then still fought back to win on penalties.

Now heading back to Monterrey with just a 2-1 win, the Crew conceded first (to give Monterrey the advantage with away goals counting) and didn’t cave. Instead, they rose to the occasion.

It started with Aidan Morris taking advantage from a mistake by Monterrey goalkeeper Esteban Andrada just before the halftime whistle. That put the Crew up in the series.

Aidan Morris: raw # for Columbus in 3-1 win in Monterrey74 mins69 touches36/45 passing1 shot1 goal5 passes into final 1/32/2 dribbles4/5 tackles10/12 ground duels3x fouled1 foul- CONCACAF Champions Cup finals next- Olympics after that pic.twitter.com/Rm8SUdDGjB

Then in the third minute of the second half, Crew manager Wilfried Nancy showed why his the man of the moment right now. He brought on Romanian winger Alexandru Matan to start the second half and Matan promptly played a clever through-ball to Diego Rossi who put the Crew up 2-1 in the game. With the away goal advantage, the Crew then essentially had a three-goal lead.

While Monterrey had chances, it was the Crew who when put the nail in the coffin when Matan again hit a killer pass to set up a chance. This time to Canadian attacker Jacen Russell-Rowe who also came on as a substitute minutes before scoring.

Brilliant assist by Matan and a great definition by Rossi to increase the lead to 4-2 on aggregate for Columbus Crew! ????? pic.twitter.com/msjQBoNmbO

Minutes later, the Crew nearly had another, but a Christian Ramirez penalty was saved.

But the final whistle sounded, and the Crew walked away with a deserved multi-goal win in Mexico and a spot in the final.

Jacen Russell-Rowe sends it to the back of the net and seals it for the Crew! ? pic.twitter.com/FjcO2T92mQ

It was a historic win for the club and one that now has them one win away from a spot in the FIFA Club World Cup next year. Here are some thoughts.

Wilfried Nancy stock couldn't be higher right now. Yes, the Crew team has a great roster and they're one of the most talented teams in the league (not at the top of the table due to squad rotation). Tactically, he is smart and the team has bought into what he says, but he plays similar tactics to other coaches in the league. But there is also an attitude difference this team has where they never beat themselves and always respond well to adversity.

Columbus trailed in both legs 1-0 at one point. Each time, they responded beautifully.

“Difficult opponent, difficult environment, but again, the idea is to be limitless. This is what they did, and I’m really proud of them.”#Crew96 | #VamosColumbus https://t.co/28ODdarS6f

Notice there were never complaints about roster restrictions or budgets from Nancy's side that we often see in MLS vs. Liga MX matchups. Instead, his team believed they were every bit as good as their opponents from the starters to the bench.

For good reason too.

Matan came off the bench and had two assists. Russell-Rowe scored after coming into the game in the 86th minute. He also scored the winner in the first leg. This team also got past Tigres after Cucho Hernandez was internally suspended for the first leg at home. In the second leg, Morris was suspended in Mexico and Derrik Jones filled in. Substitutes continued to play a role in extra time and into penalties.

When asked about a message for the fans and city, “ Listen I told my wife after a week of being here , they deserve something special. Not because of having good players but because of how the fans fought to save the club.”- Wilfried Nancy..#crew96

It was a stark comparison to the way Inter Miami fell to Monterrey. The Mexican side won both legs as Miami's star veterans looked tired and even after Tata Martino admitted he didn't want to bring his young players into such an environment in the second leg.Yes, Nancy had his entire roster ready to compete but it also brings us to the Crew's general manager Tim Bezbatchenko constructed a terrific roster that is well balanced from experience to youth, from imports to homegrowns. Between the two, there were players who were talented, ready to compete, and able to match up against two of Liga MX’s best teams.

Moreso than LAFC’s run to the final last year, Americans (and Canadian product Russell-Rowe) played a big role in this game and in this run. Morris and Russell-Rowe each scored. Derrick Jones came off the bench and forced a turnover to start the play on the Russell-Rowe goal. Patrick Schulte has been very good over both legs. There were two U.S. U-20 eligible players on the bench. In total, six Americans and one Canadian played for Columbus. Another American in Brandon Vazquez played for Monterrey. Six Mexican players played for Monterrey.

As for Morris, he had another big game and he might be reaching a stage where he has to move now – if he ever wants to leave. He’s in good form, he’s 22, he’s won two MLS Cups, he’s come back from an ACL injury, he’s helped his team to the final of CONCACAF, and he’s on the U.S. U-23 team. If not now, when?

Just a kid from the Crew Academy ? pic.twitter.com/QADGK9kLJ2

Patrick Schulte will probably finish the season, but if he finishes the year strong and has a good Olympics, he might move on too.

We saw in 2022 how hard it was for the Seattle Sounders to handle a run to the CONCACAF final with MLS games as they failed to make the playoffs. The same was true with Toronto in 2018. LAFC made the playoffs, of course, but they struggled around the time of their run to the CONCACAF final.

It’s not just a physical toll of playing in two tournaments, it is an emotional and mental toll as well. Colombus is still doing well in the league at 15 points form 10 games (good for fifth place). But now will be the test.

Teamwork is the way to go! ????The Matchday Photo presented by @qatarairways | #ConcaChampions pic.twitter.com/KGrjD98yDw

Columbus has to host Cincinnati this weekend, then they have three road games. Then they have the final before the Copa America will offer a bit of a break.

But being able to maintain this level will be a test and it will really be important for Nancy to rotate his squad. The Crew have invested in their academy a lot, we will see if they’re ready.

Unlike previous editions, the CONCACAF Champions final will not be two legs. Instead, Pachuca by virtue of their record, will host the final. The Crew will now need to prevail in yet another decisive game in Mexico. But unlike Monterrey, this game will be played at 7,843 feet above sea level (even higher than Azteca).

Claim The Cup ????The Crew will travel to Estadio Hidalgo to take on CF Pachuca in our first-ever Concacaf Champions Cup Final. The match will kick off at 9:15 p.m. on Saturday, June 1. pic.twitter.com/LNWhrXKnP5

It’s not as fair as two legs, but if the Crew are able to win, it’s hard to argue that they aren’t the deserved champions. But this team believes they are special, this is the chance to prove it.
