GOOD MORNING ASN readers, we’ve made it to the midweek and, as always in American soccer, the news and games never stop. Here is a bunch of news to get you through the start of the midweek.

But first, here is what to expect from ASN this week

Now, the news

Tim Weah, 24, needed something big. His minutes for Juventus have been inconsistent and at 24, he is still yet to have a 2000-minute season. Now he’s heading into a summer with the USMNT where he might have to shoulder more responsibility given the reported long-term injury to Sergino Dest.

On Tuesday, Weah had one of the best moments of his career when he came off the bench in the 81st minute with Juve trailing Lazio 2-0 (but even 2-2 on aggregate) in Rome. Two minutes after coming into the game, he was able to get the ball on the right side and send a ball to Arkadiusz Milik for a tap in.

The goal proved enough to give Juve the win on aggregate.

Best moment of the season for Tim Weah (he needed it) and one of the best of his career. Juve through to the final pic.twitter.com/FzG7LEDc0H

Weah needed this. He’s been up and down this season, but this will give him and his team a much needed boost. It’s too early to say if this will open the door for him to be a regular starter, but it will help keep him in consideration, and it will give him momentum heading into the summer with the USMNT and possibly the transfer window.

Fabrizio Roman confirmed on Tuesday that, as has been expected, Olivier Giroud will be joining LAFC this summer after the expiration of his deal to AC Milan. Giroud, 37, will give LAFC more firepower up front and this is needed after the seeming loss of Carlos Vela. It will also help give Denis Bouanga more support up top.

The question remains, however, is how much will a player of his age hold up? He can obviously still score, and he has 13 goals and eight assists in 30 Serie A games this season. He also has a goal and an assist in the Champions League and a goal in the Europa.

This is a short term 18-month deal that should see him at a high enough level, but as Gareth Bale showed LAFC, the wheels come off every player at some point. There is a risk to always going old.

Tyler Adams will not play for Bournemouth against Wolves on Wednesday. He was ruled out on Tuesday due to his continued back injury. It’s not a good situation. The Nations League performance and his full 90 for Bournemouth right afterward (where he was the MOTM) showed that there is limited rust. But another injury makes everyone question his involvement at the Copa America.

Even if he does manage to get back, what will be his ability to start and play regularly?

MLS Argentina (not affiliated with MLS) sent out a tweet that American-born Leandro Soria, 19, was joining that Philadelphia Union II. The tweet was backed up by pictures of Soria with a Union jersey at the team’s complex.

???????? Leandro Soria, extremo de la reserva de @ClubGodoyCruz, es NUEVO JUGADOR de @PhilaUnionII. El pibe de 19 años es NACIDO EN EEUU pero se formó en el club mendocino, donde también está su hermano Matías. ???????????????? pic.twitter.com/KYHG8abJSR

Soria made his debut in the Argentine Primera with Godoy Cruz at 17 years old but has since mostly played with their reserve team. Now the winger will head to Philadelphia to play with the second team.

It could be a good move for Soria. He seems to have hit a dead end with Godoy Cruz and the Union is a team that will play young players if they’re good enough. It’s certainly worth it for both Soria and the Union.

Alejandro Zendejas has been a big player for Club America in 2024 – particularly in the CONCACAF Cup where he has five goals in 563 minutes.

The USMNT winger scored his team’s only goal in a 1-1 draw with Pachuca on Tuesday in the semifinal of the Champions Cup.

¡Así vibró el Azteca con el primero de las Águilas! ???? pic.twitter.com/2lfkhOem7U

That result, however, is not good. It gives Pachuca an edge heading into the second leg where they will host. Pachuca plays at 9000 feet above sea level and is a tough assignment for any team.For Zendejas, it could be a big period ahead for the USMNT as well. The injury to Sergino Dest could shift Tim Weah to right back and create an opening on the wings. Zendejas was left off the Nations League roster but might now have a path back into the team - if, of course, he continues to play well for Club America.

Meanwhile, the Crew get ready to host Monterrey on Wednesday night in what should be an electric atmosphere in Ohio.

Columbus is the last MLS team standing and the expectations are that they should be able to compete well as one of the best teams in the league and one that was able to get past a tough Tigres team in the quarterfinal.

"This is not a test for my team," Crew manager Wilfried Nancy said. "This is an opportunity to get better again and to keep doing what we do against a different style of play. There is no test with my team. The only challenge that they have is to be better than they did before.”

????? "This is an opportunity to get better."Columbus is embracing @TheChampions semifinal: https://t.co/GaTkb9Zoqs pic.twitter.com/z7HphnjITQ

"Last year we played [Club América] but at home, and this year we played Tigres but away," He added. "Every time that you do something, you repeat some good habits. So now they are ready to compete. So for me, this is the most important. Club América, Tigres, semifinal, the idea is to go as far as possible and to embrace this challenge."

While Cucho Hernandez has been the top Crew performer in 2024, the team has a big American presence with two likely Olympians in goalkeeper Patrick Schulte and midfielder Aidan Morris. In the second leg against Tigres, Darlington Nagbe was instrumental.

Standing in their way is a very good Monterrey team that has USMNT hopeful Brandon Vazquez at the team’s No. 9. Vazquez has been very important for Monterrey in this tournament where he has scored big goals against Cincinnati, his former team, and then Inter Miami.
