AS THE UNITED STATES men’s national team prepares to take on Canada on Saturday for its first game after the Copa America and its first game since Gregg Berhalter was fired, defender Tim Ream and forward Folarin Balogun took time to speak the media on Tuesday to talk about the start of camp.

Despite the disappointment of the Copa America, both Ream and Balogun were players who played well. Following the tournament, Balogun rejoined Monaco where the team will participate in in the Champions League. The striker has a lot to prove as his scoring production fell to just seven goals in 2023/24 after he scored 21 at Stade de Reims the year before.

Meanwhile, Tim Ream completed a move from Fulham to Charlotte FC after a 12-year career in England with Bolton and Fulham.

As expected, the big topic was the change in leadership with the USMNT as Mikey Varas will run this camp as the interim head coach after Gregg Berhalter was fired in June after the ugly Copa America exit. This camp is also being held in the backdrop of Mauricio Pochettino reportedly nearing a deal to be the USMNT head coach through the 2026 World Cup.

“I was counting the other day,” Ream said. “I think I've had ten different or 11 different managers over the course of just my club career. It's one of those things that lifts the intensity and lifts the focus. You put a little bit more into it. But at the same time, you do have to understand that you have to play your own game, and do what has gotten you to that point while also adjusting and adapting to a new voice. That's not any different at any level that you play at. There's a fine line and a balance of pushing, and being more focused and more intense, but also playing your game.”

In terms of this camp, the big goal for the players is simply to create momentum into the fall and into the pre-World Cup year of 2025. This would allow Pochettino to inherit a team that has at least taken a few steps forward after the team’s biggest low-point since the 2017 failed World Cup qualifying campaign.

“After the Copa ended, there was a mutual, feeling within the dressing room of disappointment,” Balogun said after the USMNT loss to Uruguay which eliminated the team from the Copa in the group stage. “But we knew that we had to put it to rest yet. Go away, reflect. We've come back for this, and we had the time to reflect and speak together. When we have the opportunity to wear this jersey, it's about putting a show for our fans, giving 100%.”

Ream echoed similar thoughts.

“As Flo said before, we came away from the Copa disappointed and the conversation amongst all of us and with Mikey has been let's treat this camp as the most important, at this time,” Ream said. “Let's try to keep the program moving forward in a positive direction. There's a lot of things that we can do in this short period of time to do that.”

“We acknowledge what happened with the Copa,” Ream said. Whent asked about Pochettino, Ream said playing against his clubs was always extremely difficult. "His teams are always difficult to play against," said Ream. "Obviously he's a high quality, high level manager. They were they were teams that were really well organized and really strong in the attacking sense. I don't think I was on the right end of any of the matches that I played against them."

U.S. Soccer announced one change to the roster on Thursday in that Gio Reyna has been removed from the team due to a left groin strain.

Cade Cowell has been named the Liga Mx Player of the Month for July. pic.twitter.com/9eQ5IWjYqX

In his place, Cade Cowell was named to the team. Cowell, 20, was recently named the Liga MX player of the month for July. Between his eight games this season for Chivas in both Leagues Cup and Liga MX, Cowell has amassed 655 minutes – scoring four goals and adding two assists.

There are a few thoughts.

The decision to add Cowell over players like Paxten Aaronson or Griffin Yow likely comes down to logistics. Cowell has a great case in his own right – as do Aaronson and Yow. But he is only a quick flight away as opposed to 5000 miles away.

Second, for Reyna this is a huge concern. He has not exceeded 650 minutes in any of his last three seasons. He didn’t move this past summer and his forecast for regular minutes with Dortmund, at least through January, is unsettled. It was imperative that he began the season well. That has not happened as he only made a pair of late appearances off the bench.

If this injury keeps him out at Dortmund, the club loses trust that Reyna is going to ever stay healthy for an extended run. The club then also begins to get more comfortable with other options. That then puts in in a tough situation in January. Who is going to gamble on a player who either doesn’t or can’t play a lot?

For Reyna’s career, he can’t afford a long-term absence. He can’t have another sub-1000 minute season and not be in a very deep hole that will take a long time to climb out.

In MLS and former USMNT player news, Carlos Bocanegra has been fired at Atlanta United. It continues to be a transitional year for Atlanta as Gonzalo Pineda was fired in June, and the club has sold many top players including Thiago Almada, Giorgos Giakoumakis, and Caleb Wiley. Club president Garth Lagerwey is essentially taking steps to almost rebuild the roster and the front office. This is another big step.

Bocanegra has been with Atlanta since 2015 and has seen the club at is best and its worst. But that is a long time for any individual at a club.

Atlanta United Part Ways with VP, Technical Director Carlos Bocanegra

This doesn’t mean Atlanta is checking out of the 2024 season. In MLS, a few results can dramatically help a team’s chances. But the goal is to probably have the team in a strong position to be a good team in 2025.

Sporting Kansas City have made a great sale in shipping American fullback Kayden Pierre to Genk – this has been reported for weeks. But what is interesting is that it gives SKC value for a player they were not using much after Jake Davis won the starting right back job.

?????????????????? From Kansas City to the Cegeka Arena, ???????????????????????? ???????????????????????? is here to show us how it's done. Let's go, Kayden! ???????? #krcgenk #mijnploeg pic.twitter.com/anmp09FI8p

On Thursday, Pierre started for Genk in a 1-1 draw with PSV. Both teams were missing players away on international duty (especially PSV), but Richie Ledezma also started for PSV.

John Brooks, 31, recently signed for Herthat BSC as a free agent. This was a move for him to return to his hometown team and aim to help in a promotion race.

But Brooks will now miss a lot of time due to an ankle injury he picked up this week.

Inter Miami has been the talk of MLS over the past year, even with Columbus being the best team during that span. But as Inter Miami close in on a Supporters Shield triumph for 2024, they will also have a new home in 2026 as they announced that Freedom Park will be built in Miami.

Our new home ???????? Join the dream and place your deposit for our 2026 season now:https://t.co/LXKUaK4llR pic.twitter.com/ciQDXmkDp3

Whether or not Messi is around by then is another matter. But the stadium looks great and there is little doubt Miami will look to continue to make blockbuster moves (if they have the space) to make sure it has an exciting team heading into the 2026 season.
