WE HAVE A LOT of news to break down on this Thursday, and it starts with some final movement regarding the United States men’s national team coaching situation. We now know Mauricio Pochettino has agreed to take the job, although a few more details remain. Plus we have lots of transfer news in both MLS and Europe.

Let’s just start with the news most people want to talk about:

This has been rumored, but it looks like the USMNT has finally ended its search for a head coach and has landed a “big name.” with Mauricio Pochettino. The former Argentine international has coached Espanyol, Tottenham, PSG, and Chelsea. The deal is not done but appears very likely.

The problem with the USMNT since the 2022 World Cup has been an issue of everything getting stale. Players seemed like guaranteed starters or guaranteed call-ups. The internal competition for minutes and roster spots had diminished.

What seemed to be most needed is a need for fresh eyes on the entire player pool. There needs to be an urgency for many of the players to improve their club situations and get to the point where they are playing. More players in the player pool need to be trusted with responsibilities.

After that, then you can get to tactics.

Pochettino is a very personable manager but one who commands respect. He has a very good history of integrating and working with younger players, and that could be valuable for the players right now who are looking to push through.

One concern for Pochettino is that he has not worked in the international arena before and it might require him to have a different approach. He won’t be with the players nearly as often as he was in a club situation. On the other hand, he might enjoy the control he has being a national team manager where he can immediately drop players or add players depending on his wishes.

But his pressing formation and his energetic style seems likely to fit with many of the U.S. players. It’s also refreshing that there isn’t much talk of him having control over the men’s side of the federation, including the youth teams. It seems like he won’t be overextending himself but rather will be here to make sense of the USMNT and it’s player pool.

There will a lot to be said about this move in the days ahead.

The MLS transfer deadline was on Wednesday and the deadline to sign free agents is ongoing.

The New York Red Bulls added a designated player in Felipe Carballo from Brazilian Serie A side Grêmio. He has seven caps with Uruguay’s national team and he will help to fill the void left by Frankie Amaya’s departure and the injured Peter Stroud. He was named the Uruguayan Primera División Player of the Year in 2022.

The Red Bulls needed midfield depth, and they got it. The question for them becomes finishing. They need Dante Vanzier to hit his stride in the fall. That would open the door further for contributions from Emil Forsberg and Lewis Morgan.

FC Cincinnati have added Niko Gioacchini on loan from Como. Gioacchini was very good in St. Louis in 2023 when he scored 10 goals. He then was transferred to Como, but playing time has been limited. IT will be interesting to see how Gioacchini competes with Kevin Kelsy for playing time, and if the club is opting towards not exercising its pricy option to buy for Kesly’s loan. Gioacchini will occupy a DP spot in Cincy.

Niko Gioacchini is #AllForCincy. ????????The Club has acquired Niko Gioacchini on loan from Como 1907 of the Italian Serie A through the end of the 2024 MLS Season.

Cincinnati’s biggest concern right now, however, is the backline in light of the injuries to Matt Miazga and Nick Hagglund. The team can score goals, and Gioacchini only adds to that. But defending is an issue and we saw that in the midweek Leagues Cup loss to Philly.

Charlotte FC have signed Spanish No. 10 Pep Biel, 27, on loan from top Greek club Olympiacos (the loan includes an option to buy). He joins Polish international forward Karol Swiderski and Israeli international forward Liel Abada as the club's three designated players.

With the addition of Tim Ream and now Biel, Charlotte have bolstered their roster both offensively and defensively.

In the west, Minnesota United added midfielder Joaquín Pereyra as a DP from Argentine top-flight side Atlético Tucumán. Minnesota have struggled with imports recently with the Emmanuel Reynoso saga still lingering.

Willkommen, Marco ????????@woodyinho’s first message to the G’s ???? pic.twitter.com/snWQ6qKKow

In the biggest name addition, Marco Reus has joined the LA Galaxy after a long career in Germany and a recent run to the Champions League final with Borussia Dortmund. He is not a DP but was acquired with TAM. The Galaxy have been very solid lately with their DP’s, including Riqui Puig, Joseph Paintsil, Gabriel Pec. They’ve turned the corner from a wave of bad and expensive signings. Reus isn’t very expensive, but does he address the defensive concerns for the Galaxy?

After rumors have linked him to Bundesliga teams (which were accurate), Mark McKenzie will instead be off to Toulouse, which is coming off 11th and 13th place finishes in Ligue 1 over the last two years. The deal is reportedly for $3 million.

???????? EXCL | Mark McKenzie is on the verge to join @ToulouseFC with immediate effect ??Agreements done. Flight booked for this evening. Medical scheduled for Friday. ??Transfer fee: around €3m all-in??Contract until 2027. Several teams from the Bundesliga and Anderlecht… pic.twitter.com/DIH7bKcZmW

It is not as big of a move forward as people were expecting for McKenzie, but it moves him into a “Big 5” league and gives him a good shot at playing time. Anderlecht was also interested, and that would have been more of a lateral move. The Bundesliga offers, such as Stuttgart, were not as likely to see McKenzie land as a starter.

For the USMNT under a new manager, it is critical that players start and make themselves visible. All players are starting off with a clean slate.

Luca de la Torre, 26, does not appear to be in a good situation at Celta Vigo under its new manager Claudio Giraldez. Per a report out of Spain, the USMNT midfielder is out of the plans at the La Liga club and they are trying to sell him before the deadline.

Per this report, Luca de la Torre is not in the plans anymore at Celta Vigo under new manager Claudio Giráldez. The club are attempting to move him before the end of the window. https://t.co/94ElejhPFj

De la Torre has been in relegation battles for most of his career since he left Fulham four years ago for Heracles. In his second season at Heracles, the club was relegated and he moved to Celta Vigo. He started most of the games for Celta when he was healthy, but the club was in a relegation battle each season.

The question then becomes which moves provide him with financial comfort and playing time? At age 26, he is now in his prime earning years and that becomes important to take care of his financial future.

In that regard, do not be surprised of San Diego FC become an option. The club will join MLS next year and that is his hometown. De la Torre’s visibility as a USMNT player and as a local could convince San Diego to make a very competitive bid.
