THE WEEKEND for Americans abroad was about the top U.S. national team players. It seemed like last season with Americans in Europe, the key internationals were struggling at their clubs and the positive stories were those who had yet to find much success. This season, however, is about the heavy hitters.

The list of players who are playing well are the most well-known American players – like Christian Pulisic, Sergino Dest, Folarin Balogun, Weston McKennie, Yunus Musah.

But this weekend was a good one because in addition to the top players playing well, you also had important performances from players like Joe Scally, Malik Tillman, Tanner Tessmann, and Gianluca Busio. To top it off, we even saw minutes from players like Gio Reyna (his first of the season) and good performances from players like Bryan Reynolds, Marlon Fossey, and Cameron Carter-Vickers.

This was as deep of an outing as you could reasonably expect.

The goals from abroad were all important USMNT or U.S. U-23 players.

An “under the radar” story is also the coaching success of Americans. Bob Bradley got Stabaek out of the relegation zone. Pellegrino Matarazzo took Hoffenheim into fourth place of the Bundesliga. Fabian Hurzeler now has St. Pauli atop the 2.Bundesliga table. Only David Wagner failed to get in on the action as his Norwich team drew Coventry.

But let’s get right into it.

If there was one American who needed a big game this weekend, it was Joe Scally. The Long Island native has had a very tough start to the season for Borussia Monchengladbach and was likely losing his staring job. The German media hasn’t been kind to the USMNT right back of late and Scally was on the bench on Friday as M’Gladbach hosted Mainz.

Immediately after Mainz took a 2-1 lead on M’Gladbach, Scally was subbed into the game in the 79th. In the 88th minute, Scally delivered a wonder goal – one of the best goals over the weekend in Germany. The equalizer stood, and M’Gladbach finished with a point in a 2-2 draw.

SCALLY SCREAMER ???? pic.twitter.com/iPC0BFqnKL

This was still not a good result for M’Gladbach which sits in 12th place with just six points from seven games. Mainz is in the relegation zone and this game, at home, is a game which M’Gladbach expects to win.

But for Scally, this was what was needed to get back into the starting XI and reestablish his confidence.

It was a better day for Scally than it was for Jordan Pefok who started for M’Gladbach but left in the 64th with the score 1-1. Pefok was effective in winning aerials and duels, but had just one shot and created one half-chance on the day.

On Saturday, Venezia defeated Serie B leaders Parma 3-2 at home in Venice. The win moved Venezia into third place as it moves forward in what should be a promotional race. It turned out to be quite a day for the club’s two Americans in Tanner Tessman and Gianluca Busio who both started in central midfield, both went the full 90, and both scored big goals to deliver the victory.

Busio’s goal was in the 46th minute to make it 1-0, while Tessmann’s goal was in the 63rd minute to put Venezia up 2-1.

Tessmann, 21, has been one of Venezia’s best players the past two seasons. Busio, however, has been the club’s most improved player to start this season. After last year saw his playing time gradually decline to virtually nothing, he is now a starter and is emerging into becoming a key player.

Both Americans are on the cusp or fringe of the U.S. national team, but both could be starters next summer for the U.S. U-23 team at the Olympics. It is a tournament that could help them bridge the gap into a bigger role with the full USMNT.

On Saturday, Borussia Dortmund defeated Union Berlin 4-2 and the game featured two U.S. internationals off the bench. Brenden Aaronson was subbed into the game for Union in the 55th minute and Gio Reyna was subbed into the game in the 64th minute. It was 2-1 for Dortmund when both Americans entered.

Amongst American fans, all eyes were on Reyna for this game as it was his season debut after going the last two weeks as an unused substitute. In this game, Reyna was primarily a defensive substitute for his 26 minutes plus stoppage time. He did his job at that with 2/2 in tackles and 3/4 in his ground duels. On the final Dortmund goal, Reyna was part of the buildup as his ball into the box took a deflection before finding Julian Ryerson (a Norwegian international with an American parent) whose shot took a deflection before finding the back of the net.

Reyna was overall pretty good, and he did his job. That’s the good news. The bad news is that it was probably not a strong case for him to see increased minutes, yet.

Likewise, Aaronson was active for his 35 minutes off the bench but it clearly wasn’t enough. Union Berlin is a sinking ship right now as they’ve lost five Bundesliga games in a row, and seven games in a row including the Champions League. Aaronson isn’t the problem, but he’s stuck in the mud alongside his teammates. Something is wrong in Berlin.

We’ll see if Aaronson is any different with the national team next week. Last season showed that many American players who are struggling with their clubs can put that aside when they’re with the national team.

The same is true for Reyna.

AC Milan traveled to Genoa on Saturday and rested some key players following their midweek draw at Dortmund in the Champions League. Christian Pulisic was one of those players. Musah started the game for Milan and played all 90 minutes plus the lengthy stoppage time.

But with the game 0-0 at halftime, Pulisic came in and was the difference maker.

The big moment came in the 88th minute when Musah sent a ball into the box. Pulisic was on the end of it, controlled it, and sent it in for a winner. VAR took a long look to see if Pulisic was guilty of a handball but ultimately the goal stood.

Yunus Musah to Christian Pulisic! It looks like a late winner for AC Milan! pic.twitter.com/wXZgvPMnLD

But then the end to the game went berserk.

Juventus goalkeeper Mike Maignan was sent off in the eighth minute of stoppage time. Olivier Giroud was forced to play keeper for Milan. He even made a huge save. Then Genoa goalkeeper Josep Martinez was sent off at the end. In an amusing note, it was revealed after the game that Pulisic wanted to play goalkeeeper at the game but Milan manager Stefano Pioli felt he was "too short."

87': Christian Pulisic gives Milan the lead ?90+8': Mike Maignan gets sent off ????90+9': Olivier Giroud goes in goal for Milan ????90+13': Josep Martinez gets sent off ????A frantic finish to Milan's game vs. Genoa ???? pic.twitter.com/9ETXoJLq4D

The end of the AC Milan game had a classic CONCACAF feel to it.. no doubt https://t.co/qVmgn8BSMm

Musah ended up having a great game and further solidified himself as a starting midfielder for AC Milan. He was excellent in possession during a road game in AC Milan and continues his strong upward trend over the past month. Here is his touchmap for the game.

It’s rare when three Americans start in a Premier League but that was the case when Fulham hosted Sheffield United. In the end, the Cottagers prevailed 3-1 and Sheffield United now has just one point from eight games in the league to sit last.

Tim Ream started, went the full 90, and captained Fulham. It was a monumental moment for Ream as it was his 300th Fulham appearance. For the 36 year old veteran, he was once again strong and steady in the back with his passing.

25th August 2015: Tim Ream makes his debut for Fulham in a 3-0 win over Sheffield United.7th October 2023: Tim Ream makes his 300th appearance for Fulham in a 3-1 win over Sheffield United.Full circle. ?? pic.twitter.com/UNzELg9jep

In a moment of great sportsmanship, Sheffield United’s Chris Basham suffered a serious injury with a broken leg in the first half and needed urgent care on the field and Ream was there to help in the situation – which was appreciated by all.

An update from Chris Basham on Instagram. “Devastated with my injury in yesterdays game,had my first operation to clean things up and will have a second this week to make things right… would like to thank the football world for there support in messages and social media posts… pic.twitter.com/mEWGFVQefj

Antonee Robinson also went the full 90 at left back but was guilty of an own goal in the 68th minute which briefly equalized the game at 1-1. On the play, Robinson was forced into emergency defending after Fulham defender Issa Diop came up with an injury. Fulham was thin in numbers in defense. Aside from that, Robinson was really good in this game, he pushed forward multiple times into the attack.

The most interesting news for this game was that Auston Trusty made his first Premier League start for Sheffield United, which needed to try something different after a tough start. Trusty ended up going the full 90.

Overall, it was a good performance from Trusty. He made one error in the turnover that led to a Fulham shot off the woodwork. But Trusty didn’t stand out for good or bad. The best news, however, is that he was probably good enough to remain in the starting lineup.

Even if Sheffield United go down, it will be an excellent learning experience for Trusty this season.

A first league start for the Blades. ??@Auston_Trusty || @PLinUSA ???? pic.twitter.com/9EM0ppoFny

Tim Weah and Weston McKennie started together for the first time for Juventus on Saturday in a 2-0 win over Torino in the Derby della Mole. It was the first time both players had been on the field together for Juve. The U.S. national team teammates both went the full 90.

McKennie started as a right sided central midfielder while Weah played his expected right wingback.

Overall, it was a solid but unspectacular shift from McKennie who was making his first midfield appearance of the season. Weah wasn’t perfect but looked comfortable and confident getting the chance to start. Both Americans helped Juventus control this game in a convincing derby win.Here is McKennie's touch map in this game.Here is Weah's touchmap for this game:

Will this new approach for both American players last? It’s too early to say. Max Allegri will likely need more evidence in games and in training. But a convincing win isn’t going to hurt their chances either.

Folarin Balogun, 21, looks like quite the pickup for Monaco after he found his third goal of the season in his fifth appearance to lead Monaco to a 3-1 away win over Stade de Reims.

Balogun’s 46th minute goal gave Monaco a 2-0 lead and as the custom, he did not celebrate scoring against his former team – where Balogun made a name for himself last year with Reims after scoring 21 goals on loan from Arsenal.

On the play Balogun moved into the box and ripped a shot near post, that found its way into the net. Reim’s goalkeeper Yehvann Diouf should have made the save, but the pace Balogun hit the ball made it hard.

Folarin Balogun scores his 3rd Ligue 1 goal of the season ???????????? @ESbeINSPORTS pic.twitter.com/hPopyS2m9Z

The best thing about Balogun this season is how he responded from a nightmare performance on September 22 when he missed two penalties. At a time when some players would see their confidence shatter, Balogun has raised his level and has goals in consecutive games. How young strikers respond after tough moments is a critical sign and Balogun is passing the test with flying colors.

Monaco moved atop Ligue 1 with the win 17 points from eight games. He has three goals in just 274 minutes of action. Thus far, Monaco is very happy with their expensive purchase.

Three Americans features on Sunday night as PSV defeated Sparta Rotterdam 4-0 away to remain perfect on the Eredivisie season with 24 points from eight games.

All the goals were scored in the second half and it was Malik Tillman who continued with his red-hot form to open the scoring in the 51st minute. The play began with PSV in possession inside its own half. After a slick series of passes, PSV moved the ball into the attacking third with a ton of space to operate.

The play ended with Tillman moving into the box wide open. He received a pass and had only the keeper to beat - which he did. He now has three goals in just 203 Eredivise minutes.

Overall, Tillman was very effective on the day in helping to drive PSV's offense - with four shots and 22/27 passing.

Dest, 22, put on another typically strong performance by his standards. He was effective dribbling up the left side (4/4 on dribbles) and was overall smooth with the ball. In the Eredivisie, his defense is far more effective than it is in the Champions League or any of the "Big Five" leagues he has played in.

Agustin Anello, 21, came off the bench for the last 26 minutes for Sparta Rotterdam but struggled to make an impact. Sparta declined to release Anello for the upcoming U.S. U-23 camp but, for now, he needs to keep working for a starting job at Sparta. It's within reach. From there, the U-23 team will take care of itself. The more important he makes himself to the club, the more they'll want to keep him happy and release him, than deny his release.

Ricardo Pepi did not get off the bench for PSV as Luuk de Jong played the entire game and added a goal at the end. For Pepi, this is a process of being a young player at a great club with an established veteran starter ahead of him. The good news is that the minutes he played thus far have been positive. Eventually, he will have to play more because de Jong’s workload is probably unsustainable for an entire season as a 33-year-old.

De la Torre's assist came in the 24th minute as Celta equalized the game at 1-1.

LUCA DE LA TORRE ASSIST. American midfielder hits the cross to Jonathan Bamba (?0:33) for Celta Vigo's 1st goal in 2-2 Getafe draw. The assist was LDLT's 2nd in his last 3 appearances. Great way to hit US camp for Germany, Ghana matches. ????????????????????pic.twitter.com/01ospFGCyp

But Celta had a man advantage after Getafe's Domingos Duarte was sent off in the 30th. Despite an hour of playing a man up, Celta could not prevail. In fact, Getafe moved ahead 2-1 three minutes after going down a man. Celta ended up equlizing in the 42nd to make it 2-2.

De la Torre played to his strengths in this one and was good in possession with the man advantage. Celta had 74% possession in this game. He helped circulate the ball as Getafe chased it for 60 minutes.

De la Torre had a good game, even if you would love to see him become more of an offensive weapon. But his strengths are in possession and in occassional dribbles break the game open. When he returns to Celta after the international window, he is going to need to find a way to help Celta into midtable. Unfortunately, he is seemingly in a relegation battle every year.

Bob Bradley took over Stabaek in September when the club was in the relegation zone in the second half of Norway’s Eliteserien. It was a tough assignment, but Bradley remained popular in Oslo from his first time with the club. Midweek, Stabaek took a huge step forward with a 5-2 win over HamKam. On Sunday, the club moved out of the automatic relegation zone following a big 1-0 win over Lillestrom, who were without American central defender Sam Rogers.

Bradley’s team now moved into the relegation playoff position but is just one point away from being in the automatically safe positions. The good news for Bradley is that Stabaek is now trending up and there are six games remaining. The bad news is that the next two are challenging games on the road.

Bob Bradley to the rescue! He took over a Stabaek team deep in the relegation zone. After today's win over Lillestrom (second win in a row & the first two wins since May) they're out of the relegation zone and into the playoff position. 6 games remaining Stabaek loves Bob! https://t.co/9q3upQw6Ph

In the Premier League on Saturday, Crystal Palace hosted Nottingham Forest in a 0-0 draw. Matt Turner started for Forest and only had to make two routine saves – a set piece header in the 69th minute that he caught, and a long distance shot in the 73rd. The best chances for Palace were missed – both by Jordan Ayew (one in the 33rd and then in the 89th from about 9 yards out.

Despite being a newly promoted team on the road, Forest outplayed Palace, outshooting the London club 15-8 (5-2 on goal). Forest is certainly disappointed to not walk away with all three points.

Chris Richards came into the game in the 75th minute to help see out the result but he was asked to play right midfield. He didn’t do much as he only had five touches and was just 1/3 in passing. But he had a few moments of scrappy play late to kill time. Still, this is not a great role for Richards to get limited time in odd positions to kill time.

In the Championship, Haji Wright started and played 72 minutes for Coventry in a 1-1 draw with a Norwich team managed by former USMNT forward David Wagner. After scoring a goal midweek for Coventry in a 1-0 win over Blackburn, Wright struggled in this game and did not make much of an impact. Coventry now sits 13th place with 15 points from 11 games. Wright had four shots in this game (three were blocked and one was shanked wide from inside the box), but only four completed passes and 17 touches. He also won one out of seven duels.

Ipswich Town defeated Preston North End 4-2 on Saturday to extend a tough run for PNE. PNE was atop the Championship table as recently 10 days ago. But they have since lost their last three games by a combined score of 11-2 and are sinking fast (into third but are 10 points off the lead). Duane Holmes was on the bench to start this game but came off the bench to start the second half, trailing 3-1.

Finally in the Championship, Queens Park Rangers lost 4-0 at home to Blackburn. Reggie Cannon made QPR’s bench for the first time but did not play. The same with American forward Charlie Kelman, 21. QPR is in the relegation zone in 22nd place out of 24 teams. They have just 8 points from 11 games. But this was a good sign that Cannon is behind the legal mess after he left Boavista this summer by unilaterally terminating his contract due to late payments.

On Saturday, Hoffenhein traveled to Werder Bremen and came away with a big 3-2 win. John Brooks once again went the full 90 in the win. He plays to his strengths well at Hoffenheim and sits deep. He had 69 touches in the game but only seven were in Werder Bremen’s half. Of those seven all but two were in the first 10 yards in Werder Bremen’s half. If Berhalter is looking for mobility, this likely plays a reason in why he isn’t called up (not also wanting to add another 30+ central defender). He plays well, but Hoffenheim doesn’t put him in a position where he must cover a lot of space.

American manager Pellegrino Matarazzo continues to do an excellent job with Hoffenheim. Last season he guided the club away from the relegation zone. Now they’re in fifth place in the Bundesliga with an impressive 15 points from seven games. He continues to showcase himself as a very good manager in the Bundesliga.

In the Bundesliga on Saturday, Kevin Paredes was subbed into Wolfsburg game against Stuttgart in the 79th minute. At the time, Stuttgart had just taken a 2-1 lead and Wolfsburg was pushing for an equalizer. Unfortunately for Paredes & Co., Stuttgart found a third goal in the 82nd and won 3-1. What is interesting about this game is that Wolfsburg played Paredes in the middle of the field as an attacking playmaker as opposed to his natural wing position. The challenge remains for Paredes to find his way into the starting lineup. He is a regular for Wolfsburg and plays just about every game. But he only has one start and now he is seeing his position move around. That is a concern – when he is seen as useful plug in a number of roles as opposed to a set impact position.

On Sunday in the Bundesliga, Bayer Leverkusen defeated FC Koln 3-0. Teenage German-American forward Damion Downs, 19, made his third straight first-team appearance since making his debut for Koln. This time as a late 90th minute substitute. But FC Koln is struggling mightily and sits in last place with just one point from seven games.

Also on Sunday, Eintracht Frankfurt defeated FC Heidenheim 2-0. It was a huge weekend for Lennard Maloney who earned his first USMNT call-up on Thursday. Then on Sunday, the Eintracht match fell on his 24th birthday. The defensive midfielder went the distance for Heidenheim in the loss but he played to his strengths, winning balls and tackles up the middle to shield his team’s backline (he was 4/8 in ground duels, 6/8 in aerials, and 36/48 in passing).

This is how it is going to be for Heidenheim this year – turning games into a tough, physical slog, in hopes they’ll prevail. They won’t win a lot, but the goal is that it will be enough help them towards an unexpected survival. So far, it’s working and they’re in 10th place.

Paxten Aaronson and Timothy Chandler were unused substitutes for Eintracht. Aaronson will now head across the Atlantic to Arizona to report to the U.S. U-23 camp, its first camp of the cycle.

On Saturday in the 2.Bundesliga, Greuther Furth hosted Hansa Rostock and came away with a 1-0 win. Both of Furth’s two Americans, Maximillian Dietz and Julian Green went distance. Green played well and was the team’s most energetic offensive player but the winning goal came off an own goal. Dietz, 21, meanwhile played as a right central defender in a three-man backline. With the win, Greuther Furth moved into eighth place.

Dietz remains one of the few U.S. U-23 options in central defense who is playing regularly either in Europe or MLS.

On Saturday, St. Pauli destroyed FC Nurnberg 5-1 at home to move two points clear into first place. Still just 30 years old, Houston-born Fabian Hurzeler has been a revelation as the manager for St. Pauli after he was hired in December (when the club was on the edge of the relegation zone). In his 26 games managing the club in the 2.Bundesliga, he has 18 wins, six draws, and two losses.

On Friday, Kaiserslautern defeated Hannover 3-1, but Terrence Boyd was an unused substitute in the win.

On Sunday in the 2.Bundesliga, Eintracht Braunschweig dropped a 3-1 decision at home to Paderborn. Johan Gomez went 76 minutes in attacking midfield for Braunschweig and left with his team down 2-1. He finished with five shots. With the loss, Eintracht Braunschweig fell to last place of the 2.Bundesliga with five points from nine games. Gomez, 22, will now head to Arizona to join the U.S. U-23 camp. Ei

In Serie B, Palermo coasted to a comfortable 2-0 away win over Modena. The win was helped by the fact Modena went down to 10 men in the 23rd minute when defender Shady Oulhadda was sent off. U.S. national team left back Kristoffer Lund played 64 minutes for Palermo and left with his team up 1-0. It was a competent but not flashy performance from the Danish-born Lund who created a dangerous chance off a cross towards the end of the first half.

Also in Serie B, Lecco sank further into last place after a 3-0 loss away to Cosenza. Andrija Novakovich played the full 90 in loss as Lecco now has just one point from six games.

In the Eredivisie on Friday, Volendam defeated Utrecht 1-0 in a matchup between the two last-placed teams in the league. Zach Booth played the last three minutes for Volendam to kill off the club’s first win of the season. His older brother, Taylor Booth, returned from an injury that kept him out the past six weeks but went as an unused substitute. Both Booth brothers are eligible for the U.S. U-23 team but both should be in a relegation battle this year and might have release issues for camps. Utrecht is now last in the Eredivisie.

Also in this game, Rickson Van Hees, 21, was on the bench for Utrecht for the first time. Unfortunately, he went as an unused substitute, and his Eredivisie debut will have to wait. The Glendale, Arizona native is a fullback who also has Mexican and Dutch passports. He previously was with North Texas in USL League One in 2021 but had his contract terminated by mutual consent after just two months.

On Sunday in the Eredivisie, PEC Zwolle dropped a 2-0 result at home to Feyenoord. In the game, former Philadelphia Union homegrown Anthony Fontana, 23, made his Eredivisie debut playing the last 21 minutes in the loss. But PEC Zwolle was badly outplayed, and Fontana only had six touches and was 2/6 in passing.

On Sunday, Djordje Mihailovic did not get off the bench for AZ Alkmaar in a huge 2-1 away win over Ajax in Amsterdam. AZ Alkmaar have been excellent this season with 22 points from eight games, to sit second behind a perfect PSV Team. But the team’s strong form has made it tough for Mihailovic to find a way onto the field and that seems likely to continue as the current formula is winning.

In the second tier Eerste Divisie, ADO den Haag defeated TOP Oss 1-0 to move into third place. Justin Che started at right back for ADO but came off hobbling in the 73rd minute. Gedion Zelalem started and played 90 minutes for 17th-place Den Bosch in a 1-0 loss at home to FC Eindhoven. Also, American left back John Hilton played 90 minutes for sixth-plaec FC Dordrecht in a 5-2 win over Cambuur.

Westerlo won their first game of the season on Saturday when they defeated Kortrijk 2-1 at home in a matchup of the bottom two teams in the First Division. With the win, Westerlo moved into 15th place, second to bottom with six points from 10 games.

Bryan Reynolds was fantastic in this game, with some members of the attending media saying he was the best player on the field. Playing as a right wingback, he was aggressive in the attack, he was winning duels, he was making plays. His touchmap reflects how aggressive he was.

Reynolds was called up to the U.S. U-23 team where he should have a chance to be a leader and an impact player on the right side. He now gets to join that team as an experienced player.

Griffin Yow showed signs of returning from his knee injury he suffered in preseason and made Westerlo’s bench for the first time. Alex Mighten was injured for Kortrijk.

On Sunday, Marlon Fossey had a strong outing for Standard Liege in a huge 2-1 over Club Brugge. The game had added meaning as Club Brugge head coach Ronny Deila left Standard towards the end of last season to take the job at Club Brugge. Previously, he was with New York City FC where he won MLS Cup in 2021.

After a slow start to the season, Standard now have their act together with three wins and a draw in their last four games to move into eighth place. In this game, Fossey impressed for 68 minutes before being forced out due to cramping. Typically an offensive player, Fossey as a defensive stalwart at right wingback in this game and he helped shut Brugge down. When he was subbed out, Brugge attacked down that side and eventually scored. But Standard deserved this win and Brugge now sit in fifth place, six points off the lead.

Will Fossey ever make it into the USMNT? It will be hard as Dest, Scally, and DeJuan Jones sit ahead of him. Bryan Reynolds might make the jump after the U-23 cycle. It’s crowded, but if Fossey can continue his upward trajectory, maybe. He’s come so far after missing so much time due to repeated serious knee injuries – the first of which was at the 2017 U-20 World Cup with the U.S. team.

Genk played its fourth draw in a row when they hosted Genk and the game ended 1-1. Mark McKenzie, 24, continued to start after returning recently from his broken toe. He had a dangerous header in the 45th minute that was blocked. He also nearly assisted in the second half on a deep ball out of the back. Overall, it was a steady outing for McKenzie who is frustratingly on the edge of the U.S. national team roster – this time falling outside due to his recent broken toe.

Also on Sunday, Royal Antwerp easily defeated Eupen 4-1. After a strong start to the season, it was Eupen’s fifth loss in a row to sink to 12th place with 10 points from 10 games. Gaga Slonina had a really very tough tough assignment in this game. One of the four that got past him was an own goal in the 61st minute. He then allowed a 90th minute goal when Eupen was trying to push for a lead. The other two goals were early.

But Slonina also had to make nine saves as Eupen was simply badly outplayed. Royal Antwerp had an xG of 5.67 and outshot Eupen 27-5. Slonina had absolutely no chance in this game. It’s still a great experience for him to be thrown into such an environment with a low-budget club that is trying to scrap and do anything to survive. He’s doing well, believe it or not. Meanwhile, Sam Vines was still not back from his injury for Royal Antwerp.

Finally on Sunday, Yale University graduate Kahveh Zahiroselam was not in the matchday squad for St. Truiden in an ugly 4-0 loss at home to Union SG. St. Truiden fell to 9th place with the loss.

After making a tough appearance in the Champions League loss to Lazio to mark his comeback from a lengthy injury, Cameron Carter-Vickers started on Saturday in his first Premiership appearance since August 13. He ended up playing 74 minutes in a 2-1 win over Kilmarnock. He was a typical Celtic game in Scotland outside of the Old Firm where Celtic had 75% of possession and the backline was rarely texted. But the U.S. national team central defender looked as good as he typically does.

On Saturday, Livingston defeated Motherwell 2-0. Motherwell were reduced to 10 players in the 45th minute. Scott Pittman, 31, went 90 minutes in central midfield in the win as Livingston moved into sixth place. Pittman worked hard in this game, forcing turnovers and winning duels. He continues to add to his total as Livingston’s all-time appearance leader.

On Sunday, Aberdeen and St. Johnstone played to a 0-0 draw. Dante Polvara subbed into the game in the 56th minute for Aberdeen. The former Georgetown University Hoya midfielder only had 16 touches and was 7/7 in passing in a quiet outing.

In Sweden’s Allsvenskan on Saturday, Joe Gyau remained injured and did not suit up for Degerfors in a 0-0 draw on the road with Halmstads BK

In Portugal’s top tier, Alex Mendez went as an unused substitute for Vizela in a 0-0 away draw with Farense on Saturday.

In the Danish Superliga on Friday, Silkeborg destroyed Lyngby 5-0 at home. American winger Jonathan Amon, 24, came into the game in the 85th minute for Lyngby after all the goals had been scored.

In Liga MX on Friday, Club America defeated Mazatlan FC 2-1 away. American winger/midfielder Alejandro Zendejas started and played well in the before being subbed out in the 86th minute.

In Ligue 1 on Sunday, Emmanuel Sabbi did not get off the bench for Le Havre in a 3-0 away loss to Marseille. Le Havre was thrown off its gameplan when they were attacking mid Rassoui N’Diaye was sent off in the 40th minute. Le Havre dropped to 13th place with nine points from eight games.

In Spain’s Segunda, Konrad de la Fuente was still injured and missed Eibar’s 2-1 away win over SD Amorebieta. Eibar rose to seventh place with the win. Jonathan Gomez, 20, subbed into the game for Mirandes in the 84th minute of a tough 3-2 loss away to Real Valladolid. The ending of the game was wild as it was 1-1 when Gomez came onto the field. He saw Valladolid take a 2-1 lead in the 87th minute, his team equalized in the second minute of stoppage time, and Valladolid find a winning in the eighth minute of stoppage time. Gomez was still quiet with three touches and 3/3 passing.

Erik Palmer-Brown was injured and did not play for Panathinaikos in its 5-0 win over Atromitos. Panathinaikos moved into second place of Greece’s Super League with the win.

In Austria’s Bundesliga, LASK defeated SCR Altach 1-0 to move into third place. George Bello earned another start for LASK and was quiet but competent in his 81 minutes. Bello has had a tough couple of seasons but has seen his minutes slowly start to increase in Austria. Perhaps with continued minutes for a good LASK team he can get his way back into the international arena with the U.S. U-23 team. That team, however, is deep at left back.

Also in the Austrian Bundesliga, SK Austria Klagenfurt played perennial champion Salzburg to an impressive 2-2 draw. American forward Sebastian Soto continues to be out of action for Klagenfurt following surgery over the summer.

In Norway Eliteserien , Molde fell to Bodo/Glimt 3-1 at home. Christian Cappis played the final 10 minutes for Molde after all the scoring had taken place. Molde now sits fifth in the table. Also in Norway, HamKam defeated Sandefjord 1-0 on the road. Kobe Hernandez-Foster was an unused substitute for HamKam.

In Brazil, it was the Porto Alegre Derby or the Grenal, on Sunday when Internacional defeated Gremio 3-2. U.S. national team midfielder Johnny Cardoso played 78 minutes for Internacional and left after all the goals were scored. It was a quiet day for him, but starting and playing in this win was another big moment for him. With the result, Internacional rose to 12th place while Gremio fell to third.
