THIS FALL, the United States U-23 team will take its first official steps towards preparing for the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles. It will mark yet another high-profile tournament that the United States will host and U.S. Soccer has said that the tournament will be priority for the federation.

Over the summer, U.S. Soccer hired Steve Cherundolo to be the Olympic team head coach. After his stellar career with Hannover and the U.S. national team, Cherundolo turned to coaching. First at the youth levels in Germany and then later with Los Angeles FC. In the hire, Cherundolo brings with him arguably the most impressive resume of a U.S. Olympic team hire.

With Cherundolo now on board, U.S. Soccer appears to be ready to invest heavily in this team with camps beginning this fall.

For important background, in an interview with ASN in May, U.S. Soccer COO Dan Helfrich said: "There's a lot of data that suggests that success in youth World Cups and in Olympic cycles on the men's side creates accelerated player development and creates the conditions for success in subsequent World Cups.”

"You will see us strategically investing more attention and resources and focus on the youth national team games program, on elevating the men's Olympic team to prepare us to be in the best competitive position. I think those things will have a significant role in the competitive preparation for our future men's World Cup and other major tournament performances."

What could it look like?

At the 2024 Olympics, the top three teams in the men’s tournament were Spain, France, and Morocco. Spain and France sent seven players from their Olympic team to their 2026 World Cup teams, several of which were key players. Morocco sent five players from its Olympic team to its 2026 World Cup team.

When U.S. Soccer says it wants to prioritize the Olympic team, it likely wants to have a similar impact with the next Olympic team.

That makes sense. In the coming years, many key players for the U.S. national team over the past decade will be moving into their 30’s, and there needs to be competition for their roster spots. There is likely going to be a lot more spots up for grabs in the coming cycle than at any time since 2018.

When U.S Soccer wants to prioritize the Olympic team, it could mean that the federation will want to have its top U-23 players on the Olympic team and push for success there, and then have several players push on from that team to the full national team soon after.But with a very small 18 player roster size, it is exceptionally difficult to build a team as tough cuts are necessary and versatility is a huge asset.

Projected roster, two years out

If U.S. Soccer was to send its top U-23 team to the Olympics, here is an early projected roster of what that team could look like 24 months away with a few assumptions:

The best 2005-born players and younger all play for this team

1) Diego Kochen (Lyngby, on loan from Barcelona)2) Andrew Rick (Philadelphia Union)

In the mix: Julian Eyestone, Gavin Beavers, Duran Ferree, Kayne Rizvanovich, Aidan Stokes

Analysis: These two picks seem somewhat obvious. Diego Kochen has been held in high regard within U.S. Soccer. He was slated to be the starter for the 2025 U-20 World Cup team before Barcelona recalled him two days before the tournament began. He’s been called up to the U.S. team before under Mauricio Pochettino and Pochettino also invited Kochen to train with the World Cup team as a non-roster guest. Now he is starting on loan for Lyngby in Denmark.

Diego Kochen (@FCBarcelona) and Andrew Rick (@PhilaUnion) will serve as training goalkeepers with us throughout our FIFA World Cup 2026 camp. pic.twitter.com/zjNmzAYjPC

Andrew Rick was also invited by the U.S. national team staff to train with the World Cup team as a non-roster guest. He is not a starter yet for Philadelphia, but he has played a decent set of minutes the last two seasons.

There will be competition. Julian Eyestone will get a chance to prove himself this year on loan with fourth-tier Rotherham United in England while Duran Ferree continues to play significant minutes with San Diego.

3) Josh Wynder (Benfica)4) Neil Pierre (Philadelphia Union)5) Luca Bombino (San Diego FC)6) Frankie Westfield (Philadelphia Union)7) Nolan Norris (FC Dallas)8) Ethan Kohler (New England Revolution)

In the mix: Oscar Verhoeven, Reed Baker-Whiting, Tate Johnson, Stuart Hawkins, Noah Cobb, Matai Akinmboni, Ian James, Christopher Cupps, Harbor Miller

Analysis: Unlike the 2024 Olympic team, this cycle brings quality age-eligible central defense options. Josh Wynder has struggled with injuries but he was a starter at the last two U-20 World Cups. He still needs to find a way for first-team minutes and that might require a loan away from Benfica. But he is still one of the stronger central defense options among the list of those pushing towards the older age of the U-23 cutoff.

Neil Pierre is one of the top central defensive prospects and his 6’7” frame gives him a unique ability to be a dominant aerial presence, both in attack and in defense. He looks like a lock starter following his return to Philadelphia from Lyngby over the summer.

Left back Luca Bombino and right back Frankie Westfield have both played a lot of minutes over the past two seasons where they have both shown a solid upside. Westfield was outstanding at the 2025 U-20 World Cup and has been playing very well this current summer with Philadelphia.

It remains to be seen how high the ceiling is for Nolan Norris but it looks obvious that he has a very high floor. He is having a very good season at FC Dallas and he would bring a lot of value to an 18-player roster given his ability to play both central defense and left back (where he started for the 2025 U-20 World Cup team). Norris has also played in defensive midfield at times for his club. He can either start or provide backup at three positions. That is extremely valuable on an Olympic team.

Ethan Kohler is also valuable for a small-roster Olympic team given his ability to play central defense, right back, or defensive midfield. That puts him ahead of other players who are one-position dominant. He is now a starter for New England, which his helping in his development.

9) Jonathan Shore (New York City FC)10) Brooklyn Raines (New England Revolution)11) Benjamin Cremaschi (Parma)12) Mathis Albert (Borussia Dortmund)

In the mix: Adri Mehmeti, Mathew Corcoran, Pedro Soma, Snyder Brunell, Cooper Sanchez

Analysis: This is one of the most competitive areas of the player pool and head coach Steve Cherundolo will have to make some tough decisions.

Jonathan Shore seems like an underdog to make the team, but he gives the roster a true dedicated No. 6 defensive midfielder. He is back to playing a lot of minutes with NYCFC and that is a good thing for him.

Brooklyn Raines is also thriving this season with New England and his development has been accelerated playing under Marko Mitovic, who worked with him with the last U.S. U-20 team. Raines is an excellent possession-based player. He is comfortable with the ball at his feet and can get the ball into the attack quickly.

Benjamin Cremaschi is working his way back from a knee injury but that did not stop Parma from exercising its option to buy from his loan from Inter Miami. Cremaschi is a potential captain of this team after serving as the captain of the 2025 U-20 World Cup team where he won the Golden Boot as the tournament's leading scorer.

Mathis Albert is still a speculative pick at this point given that it is two years away from an Olympics where he would be playing up a cycle (he is age-eligible for the 2032 Olympic team). But he has a very high upside, and Borussia Dortmund seems to agree, having incorporated him into its first team for preseason.

Some of the cuts in this area of the field are very tough.

Adri Mehmeti is one of the best prospects at his age group and has shown very impressive moments in 2026 with the New York Red Bulls. Like Albert, he would be playing up an entire Olympic cycle, and it is tough to predict at this time that Cherundolo will bring two central midfielders who would be playing up a cycle. He has played for the youth teams of both Albania and the United States but neither since 2024. Until that changes, that also makes it harder for him as most Olympic players have extensive youth national team experience. He very well might end up making the Olympic team because he has such a high upside. But right now, he is still chasing other players.

Matthew Corcoran is another player who is having a very good season and is very important to Nashville SC’s midfield. He is a good two way player who would likely bring a solid amount of professional experience to an Olympic team in two years.

In the mix: Cole Campbell, Taha Habroune, David Vazquez, Nimfasha Berchimas, Marcos Zambrano, Luke Brennan, Chase Adams

Analysis: In recent months, Cavan Sullivan is becoming less speculative and more of a first-team ready player who can be a difference maker. Until he moves over to Manchester City, he is likely to continue to play a lot of minutes with the Philadelphia Union first team, which will only help him. Another player who would be playing up a cycle, Sullivan has a lot of experience with U.S. teams which helps. Plus, being a member of the Philadelphia Union would see him have a lot of familiarity with players who will likely make the Olympic team.

Niko Tsakiris is currently injured but is a potential starting No. 10 playmaker for this team. He has played for the last two U-20 World Cup teams and looked as if he had taken his game to another level earlier this season before he was injured and when he was thriving for San Jose.

Zavier Gozo and Peyton Miller are two of the most anticipated players on this Olympic team with Gozo being arguably the best American teenager in the game. Both players have been consistent impact players for years despite actually being age-eligible for the current 2027 U-20 cycle.

Gozo and Miller can play any wide role with Miller typically on the left side and Gozo typically on the right. It will be a question for Cherundolo as to whether they are fullbacks, wingbacks, or wingers but the best value for these players is likely on the wing with the ability to cover in the back.

Up top, Julian Hall and Justin Ellis are both young and eligible for the 2027 U-20 team but both are two of the better forwards in the pool. One concern is that both Ellis and Hall move and shift different positions in the attack with their clubs. Hall sometimes plays centrally and sometimes plays out wide. Ellis meanwhile likes to drift back into the midfield to create, but that might be useful to a team such as this U-23 team that has strong attacking options.

It is too early to get too far into the specifics as to which overage players will candidates for this team because we still do not have a formal Copa America announcement yet, which will likely affect the senior team. Plus, we need to see who Mauricio Pochettino will want for the full national team that summer. It becomes tricky, although not impossible, for a player to play in both the Copa America and the Olympics (Miles Robinson was able to do both in 2024).

Overage picks, historically, are best used pragmatically in important but not glamorous positions such as goalkeeping, central defense, and defensive midfield. Overage picks are typically there to shore up weaknesses in the existing U-23 pool and turn weaknesses in the team into strengths.

While we don’t know the overage players who could be available to Cherundolo, we can discuss where the need might be. In 2024, everyone knew that then head coach Marko Mitrovic was going to need to use two overage picks on central defenders because that was a glaring weakness.

When looking at this team, Cherundolo might not need to use two overage picks on central defenders but he likely will need to use one. At the beginning of the cycle, the top two options Wynder and Pierre are still both lacking the likely necessary experience.

Defensive midfield is another option where Cherundolo might want to make an upgrade. Having a strong No. 6 is extremely valuable at this level as it can coverup for a lot of mistakes and turnovers among other midfielders and attackers.

Cherundolo might want to explore having a strong and powerful No. 9 center forward. Players like Ellis and Hall are very good and very skillful, but having more size and physical strength in that position is ideal.
