THE YEAR FOR AMERICANS in England was extremely successful – mostly. It’s easy to pinpoint the success because there were tangible accomplishments such FA Cup triumphs, Premier League promotions, team of season nominations, and even a third-tier Golden Boot triumph. The only real blemishes for Yanks in England this season came from goalkeepers.

As we did with our Season in Review for Germany, we will look at the season for each player and where it sets them up for next season.

2024/25 season thoughts: Robinson, 27, had one of the best seasons ever for an American player in Europe as he was in the pick for most pundits to be on the Premier League Team of the Season at left back. In total, Robinson played in 36 games for Fulham for a total of 3167 minutes as Fulham finished 11th place but was inside the top eight and pushing for a spot in Europe for stretches – until an slump at the end of the season saw then fall out of the Top 10. But Robinson was very strong throughout where he covered tons of ground nearly every game to be effective on both sides of the ball.

But it did come at a price. Robinson had to undergo surgery after the season on his knee and he was not training regularly in the final months for Fulham. He was unable to play for the USMNT in both March and then in the summer for the Gold Cup.

2025/26 season lookahead: There is much speculation that Robinson performed so well that he will be sold to an elite club this summer – Liverpool has been mentioned in some reports. It’s certainly easy to believe that but the question now will be whether his knee surgery and injury history might cause some big clubs to be hesitant.

2024/25 season thoughts: After a lost season in 2023/24, Tyler Adams returned in November and finished the season with 28 Premier League appearances with 21 as starts. He played 1964 minutes in the league along with another 384 in the FA Cup. It was a strong return to form for the 2022 USMNT World Cup captain and at times he looked as strong as ever as Bournemouth finished in ninth place. It was a very productive comeback season for Adams.

2025/26 season lookahead: Adams did very well to turn the page from his injury-riddled past but next year it will be about staying healthy and pushing towards 3000 minutes – all while displaying consistency. He can establish himself as a very good Premier League player if he stays on the field. Of course, a big part of the season will be building momentum heading into the World Cup.

2024/25 season thoughts: Despite dealing with an injury, Chris Richards played 1923 Premier League minutes and 540 minutes in the FA Cup – the latter of which was a career highlight as Crystal Palace won the prestigious cup with a victory over Manchester City in the final at Wembley. Throughout the season, Richards was consistently good and he kept his off games to a minimum. With this season, he put himself in among the best American players in the game.

2025/26 season lookahead: Having won silverware, the next step for Richards is to stay healthy and play more. Can he help Crystal Palace into the top 10 while playing 2500 minutes? He certainly has the ability. Now it’s just about building upon the successes he has had so far.

2024/25 season thoughts: Joining the club on loan from Nottingham Forest, Turner made no Premier League appearances but was always on the bench. He made three starts in the FA Cup but returned to the bench for the tournament’s final stages. He wasn’t a disappointment for Crystal Palace as their expectation is that he would always be a backup. But for Turner, it was likely frustrating.

2025/26 season lookahead: Turner is in a tough spot. He needs to play to ensure he keeps his spot as the starting goalkeeper for the USMNT heading into the World Cup. But now he will return to Nottingham Forest where he is seen as a backup. Can he find another loan? Can he transfer? Forest will want something for him, and he might not be cheap as backup keepers have value.

2024/25 season thoughts: It wasn’t always pretty, but it was a successful season for both Aaronson and his club, Leeds United, which won the Championship to earn promotion to the Premier League. Aaronson played a big role where he scored nine goals across 46 appearances and 3573 minutes. He was an effective player with the press and in disrupting opponents.

2025/26 season lookahead: This is a tough player to predict as Leeds United will be looking to make upgrades to prepare for the Premier League. Aaronson might play a position which Leeds will look for more established players. This doesn’t mean that Aaronson doesn’t have a role in the coming Premier League campaign, but he will surely face more competition for minutes and might have far more occasions where he comes off the bench.

2024/25 season thoughts: From an individual level, it was an excellent season for Josh Sargent. The St. Louis native had 15 goals in 32 appearances (2502 minutes) in the Championship. Despite missing three months due to injury, Sargent still finished fourth in the league’s scoring table. Norwich stumbled to a 13th place finish, but Sargent was consistently good.

2025/26 season lookahead: There is a lot of speculation that Sargent might be sold this summer, and it is easy to see why. Norwich needs a lot of work, and selling Sargent might go a long way to solving a lot of problems. Sargent did well this past season to put his injuries behind him and he could be in demand either from a Premier League team where he might be a bench option or from a Championship team with a more realistic chance of promotion.

With regards to the national team, Sargent might feel pressured to make a move. Despite scoring a lot this season, he was left off the Gold Cup team which Mauricio Pochettino said was a “footballing decision.” It’s understandable. Sargent has been in camp with Pochettino twice and hasn’t impressed. He also hasn’t scored for the national team since 2019. He is on the outside of the bubble now and might need to do something different to get back in.

2024/25 season thoughts: Good news and bad news from Wright this season. The good news is that his numbers were okay despite having to work his way through an ankle injury. He scored 12 goals and added an assist across 2060 Championship minutes, including the promotional playoffs. The bad news is that he was poor down the stretch and in the two playoffs games. He wasn’t there when his team needed him the most. This comes off the previous season when, despite a long FA Cup run, the team stumbled badly down the stretch and failed to qualify for the playoffs.C

2025/26 season lookahead: Despite the bad ending to the season, Wright remains one of Coventry’s best players. It’s hard to see him going to another club right now either. Dating back to the 2020/21 season when he was in Denmark, Wright has scored at least 11 goals in the last five seasons across three different leagues in three different countries. At this point, you must expect it again next year. The question is whether he can deliver those goals in key moments as Coventry will once again look for promotion. It’s not how many goals Wright scores, it’s about when he scores them.

2024/25 season thoughts: After making the move last summer from the Columbus Crew, Aidan Morris enjoyed a strong first season in the Championship. Despite a few injuries, he made 35 Championship appearances for 2922 minutes. There are a lot of good things to take away from his season. His passing was crips and he really was critical to Boro’s possessions. He was on the ball a lot and his range of passing was important to switching the point of attack. His defense was also good and he handled the physical side of the game well.

On the downside, his offensive production dipped from his days in Columbus, and he had no goals and only two assists. That’s not entirely on him as there were several times he set up teammates for great chances that were not converted. Middlesborough’s playoff chances died in the final weeks of the season, but Morris is key piece for the club’s future.

2025/26 season lookahead: Morris should once again start and play a lot of minutes if he is healthy. It is fair to expect he will continue to be an anchor in possession and also be good defensively. If he can start being a threat to score goals while also playing his teammates into dangerous situations at a more frequent rate, then he will be a top Championship midfielder. He will also need to do that if he wants to have a chance to make the 2026 World Cup team.

2024/25 season thoughts: Caleb Wiley moved to Chelsea last summer and had two loans – one to Strasbourg where he was recalled and then to Watford to complete the season. He was injured when he arrived but gradually worked his way into the regular starting XI. In total, he made 10 appearances and eight starts. His best match came in a 1-0 win over Hull City where he was the MOTM. Despite Watford having a terrible second half of the season (winning just one of Wiley’s eight starts), Wiley played well, and the team was impressed.

2025/26 season lookahead: Wiley is a Chelsea player, but he probably isn’t close to being ready to play meaningfully at that level yet. He needs another loan. The reports are that Watford would like to extend his loan. Wiley might want to think things over, but it seems like a great opportunity to stay for another season at Watford – where he will enter the season as the starter and won’t need to prove himself all over again with a new club.

2024/25 season thoughts: It was a very difficult season for Horvath who lost his starting job midseason but reclaimed it during the stretch run when Jan Alnwick was injured. Ultimately, Cardiff finished last and were relegated. Horvath had a few very good games and there is a good argument that the team would have been relegated no matter who was in goal. But regardless, losing the job in the middle of the season and overseeing relegation is never a good thing.

2025/26 season lookahead: It is still to be determined if Horvath will remain with the club when they head to League One. His USMNT chances started to fade under Gregg Berhalter and are now remote under Mauricio Pochettino. But for both his club career and his USMNT chances, Horvath should probably entertain any opportunity to move on.

2024/25 season thoughts: It was great to see Daryl Dike return to the field after missing most of the last two seasons with separate ruptured Achilles tendons. West Brom made the decision to wisely bring him back into the team slowly. He returned on February 15th and made a total of 11 Championship appearances with one start for a total of 218 minutes. His best moment came in the final day of the season when he scored in a 5-3 win over Luton Town. Ultimately, it was not enough as West Brom fell just short of making the promotional playoffs.

2025/26 season lookahead: Next season is all about him showing signs he will return to being the player he was before the serious run of injuries. We don’t yet know if that is possible and he might still need more time, but the test will be more starts, longer sub appearances, and goals. Whenever they are in the Championship, West Brom always expects to contend for promotion. This means Dike will need to earn his spot and will need to contribute. The club cannot afford to give him minutes for him to rehab. Dike will still need to be a threat to score.

2024/25 season thoughts: The versatile Gooch was limited to 20 appearances and 12 starts for 1036 minutes as he had issues with injuries and form. But when Stoke was in a relegation battle and pushing for survival, Gooch played when the games became meaningful. Ultimately, Stoke City avoided relegation at the end of the season. Gooch did not stand out much and he likely wouldn’t consider this season to be successful, but he still served a purpose.

2025/26 season lookahead: Now out of contract, Gooch might stay with Stoke City or he might move on. It’s tough to get a good feeling either way. He’s still 29 and should have a few more good seasons left in him. He’ll find a job, but where? Will he consider returning home as he has been abroad for most of his life.

Charlie Kelman went on loan from Queens Park Rangers to Leyton Orient where he won the league’s Golden Boot and nearly carried them to promotion – before being stopped in the playoff final. Kelman will get a step up and the Championship seems most likely – either with QPR or not.

A pair of Americans were at Barnsley this season. Donovan Pines and Jonathan Lewis both saw limited time but mostly struggled. Gaga Slonina started the season at Barnsley but Chelsea recalled him from loan amid injury. Dom Dwyer was surprisingly impressive for Mansfield Town and might continue there next year after singing a short term agreement in the winter.

United States U-20 right back Leo Duru went on loan from Blackburn to Barrow in League Two and played well before suffering a stress fracture in his foot. He will probably return to Blackburn for preseason before the club decides if he will stay or go on another loan.
