THE UNITED STATES U-20 national team is in the quarterfinals of the 2025 FIFA U-20 World Cup following a convincing 3-0 win over Italy on Thursday in Rancagua, Chile. It marks the fifth straight tournament the U.S. team has reached the quarterfinals, but during that span the team has come up short of the semifinals. It will try to buck that trend on Sunday when it faces Morocco.

Head coach Marko Mitrovic continued in his pragmatic style in starting a very similar lineup to the one that defeated France 3-0. The only change was Zavier Gozo replacing Peyton Miller at left wing – a swap of the two youngest players on the team who are both eligible for the 2027 U-20 World Cup.

Aside from that, Beaudry continued in goal. Frankie Westfield and Nolan Norris were the fullbacks. Josh Wynder and Ethan Kohler were in central defense. Captain Benja Cremachi, Brooklyn Raines, and Niko Tsakiris were in the midfield. While Gozo, Cole Campbell were on the wings with Taha Habroune occupying a “false nine” role.

Aside from an awkward Italian cross that hit the post in the early minutes, the U.S. team controlled the game from the early goings. Even that dangerous chance from Italy did not faze the Americans.

Not exactly a golazo… but who cares?Cremaschi puts the #U20MNT up at the #U20WC pic.twitter.com/0dvfJwPE01

Cremaschi opened the scoring in the 15th minute after a scramble following a corner kick (that was awarded after Cremaschi’s dangerous shot). That allowed the U.S. team to go into the break leading 1-0.

In the second half, Italy would begin to take more possession but could not crack the U.S. team’s defense. The U.S. team finally found a second in the 79th minute after a remarkable free kick from Niko Tsakiris bent around the wall from a tight ankle.

2-0 Tsakiris!! pic.twitter.com/CQFIWF4uvc

In the closing minutes, the U.S. team found a third when Luke Brennan found a rushing Cremaschi up the middle. The captain then chipped the keeper for the dagger.

Now the U.S. team will face Morocco in the quarterfinal after the African country defeated South Korea 2-1 later that night.

Here are some thoughts on the win.

A lot of players played well against Italy. Here are some notes on them.

Benja Cremaschi: If the U.S. team can advance into the semifinal or beyond, Cremaschi has a chance to be the best player of the tournament. He’s probably the leader through four games. He is playing to his strengths right now in well-timed runs, physical strength in battles for lose balls, breaking up plays defensively, and confident finishing. If not for great a few great saves from South Africa and France, he would be at seven goals. He is very mature and looks ready for high levels. It will be fun to watch him in Serie A.

And it’s all over! USA 3-0 Italy FT- #U20MNT into the quarterfinals again of the #FIFAU20WC - Cremaschi, Tsakiris, Westfield, Norris, & Wynder all stood out the most, IMHO- here was the dagger. Cremaschi from Brennan pic.twitter.com/mjF1tD9FDH

Niko Tsakiris: The San Jose Earthquake forward hasn’t played much under Bruce Arena, but he continues to be an effective attacker. He was the U.S. team’s best creator from the run of play against Italy, and his free kick goal was a masterpiece. There will no doubt be offers for him this winter.

This shot from Tsakiris beat the keeper just inside the near post. It went around the wall, not over it. That’s a lot of bend. High degree of difficulty. Well-taken free kick https://t.co/HfAt9FTYwH pic.twitter.com/Ic27mVI0DG

Frankie Westfield: The Philadelphia Union right back has been very good every minute he’s been on the field in this tournament. That continued on Thursday against Italy when he was 7/9 in his ground duels. He was also effective passing out of the back and getting the ball forward into the attack. He’s another player who is seeing his stock soar.

Nolan Norris: the U.S. team’s left back (and backup central defender) is among the more surprising standouts as the others listed were all expected. But this season, Norris seemed to be behind Luca Bombino at left back as Bombino has been a regular starter for a good San Diego team while Norris hasn’t played much for Dallas. But against Italy, Norris continued to play error-free soccer while being a good ball-winner.

Josh Wynder: The Benfica central defender has been a rock of consistency this tournament where he is playing every minute. The Louisville native was 6/7 on his long balls as he continues to be a great distributor out of the back in addition his defense.

The strengths of this team have been its team defense and its ball winning. It’s not just the backline. The U.S. team forces turnovers and lose balls far before opponents get into the attacking third.

It reflects the tenacity of this team and its organization to still have defense in place when pressing relentlessly. But in winning duels and, even more importantly, second balls, this team has a huge success rate. Many of the team’s possessions begin in the attacking half.

It’s been very helpful for the U.S. team to have had all of its home games at Rancagua. The team has been staying in the same hotel, training at the same practice fields, and playing in the same stadium.Marko Mitrovic spoke to the local media this week and was full of praise for the way the city, and the staff at the hotel and facilities have been to the U.S. team.

But having that sense of familiarity and comfort throughout the tournament has been huge, and it will continue through the quarterfinal game.

Looking ahead to Morocco, it would be surprising if Mitrovic changes much from the starting lineup against Italy.

There are only two question marks: Cole Campbell or Luke Brennan on the wing and Taha Habroune or Marcos Zambrano.

Campbell is capable of being a game changer, but he has had a poor tournament. It has been one of the more puzzling storylines in what has been a positive tournament for the U.S. team.

Mitrovic would be justified in taking Campbell out of the starting lineup. But if he believes Campbell might turn things around, then Campbell will remain in the starting lineup. Campbell is capable of being a top player when he is in form. If Campbell can play to his potential and the rest of the U.S team keeps the same form, the U.S. team will be tough to beat. Also, Campbell had two assists in the 4-1 win over Morocco during the September window. Meanwhile at this World Cup, Brennan has assists against both France and Italy in limited minutes.

It is a tough call.

There is also a question of whether Mitrovic wants to go with a true No. 9 forward. If so, Marcos Zambrano is the only option. If not, he has to play with a “false nine” player and that involves moving Habroune into the lineup.

Morocco is going to be the toughest opponent the U.S. team has faced in this tournament. They are playing far better soccer than when the U.S. team faced them twice in the September window last month (winning 4-1 and drawing 0-0).

While the U.S. team has beaten traditional powers Italy and France, Morocco has defeated Spain and Brazil. The team has a fantastic attack led by Yassir Zabiri and Saad El Haddad, who is teammates with Gianluca Busio at Venezia. Meanwhile, French-born midfielder Gessime Yassine is also in great form.

This game against Morocco should be seen as a toss-up. The U.S. team can win, but will need to be clinical with its chances.
