ON TUESDAY, it was finally announced the United States national team midfielder Sebastian Berhalter was being transferred from the Vancouver Whitecaps to Middlesbrough in England for a little over $2 million. With this, it marks the latest chapter for a player who saw his game explode at the beginning of 2025 to becoming a regular with the U.S. team.

Berhalter, 25, has spent his entire career in MLS. First, it was on a homegrown deal with the Columbus Crew at a time when his father, Gregg Berhalter, was the team’s coach. In 2021, Berhalter was loaned to Austin FC but struggled and his option to buy was declined by the club. Then in 2022 he was traded to the Vancouver Whitecaps.

From 2022-2024, Berhalter played well and steadily improved but was not considered to be among the best American midfielders within the league. In 2024, he was not even in consideration for the U.S. U-23 Olympic team.

But in 2025 under manager Jesper Sorensen, Berhalter saw his career explode to becoming one of the best players in the entire league. He led Vancouver to a spot in the final of the CONCACAF Champions Cup and the final of the MLS Cup Playoffs. During that time, he earned a spot on the U.S. national team under Mauricio Pochettino with his best moment coming in the final game of 2025 when he scored a terrific goal in a 5-1 win over Uruguay.

Then in 2026, Berhalter only continued to raise his game. He was still playing at a “designated player” level for Vancouver and he earned a spot on the U.S. World Cup team, scoring a goal in a 3-2 loss to Turkey.

But now in the final year of his contract with Vancouver and coming off a strong World Cup, the circumstances presented him with an opportunity to try something different with his career.

With Middlesbrough, he finds himself with a Championship club that has realistic hopes of earning promotion to the Premier League. Last season, the club fell short in the playoff final. He will also be joined by his former Columbus teammate Aiden Morris who has been his best friend for most of the past decade. Last summer, Middlesbrough tried to acquire Max Arfsten from the Columbus Crew as well.

Here are a few thoughts to it.

Players who have transferred from MLS teams to Championship teams in recent years have been very successful – almost immediately. Aiden Morris is one of Middlesbrough’s best players. Patrick Agyemang improved his goal scoring rate when he moved from Charlotte to Derby County. Canadian winger Ali Ahmed made an immediate impact with Norwich after he left from the Vancouver Whitecaps. Kai Wagner has since returned to Philadelphia, but his initial transfer from the Union to Birmingham City was positive with the BCFC disappointed with his decision to return stateside. In 2019, Daryl Dike led Barnsley from a relegation battle and into the promotional playoffs.

Welcome to Boro, Sebastian Berhalter ????

It would not be surprising if Berhalter surpassed the performances of all these players. He has been playing at an MLS Best XI level and has been continuously improving, despite him no longer being a “young player.”

He also gives Middlesbrough a lot of what it needs. Boro needs to create more chances with its possessions. Berhalter has a good passing range and should help switch points of attack and the ball more regularly into the attacking third. Plus, Middlesbrough now has a very strong set piece taker.

Middlesbrough has been a team on the edges of the promotional playoff races but Berhalter is an important part of the team’s improvements in hopes that he will increase the team’s promotional chances.

It should be expected that Berhalter will continue to be part of U.S. national team. There are now reports that Mauricio Pochettino might be coming back. Either way, Berhalter has looked comfortable with the U.S. setup.

Best friends reuniting at @Boro. ???? https://t.co/PLNGgQ27Wq pic.twitter.com/KVZaDscJai

He likely would have continued to improve with Vancouver, but this gives him a new environment, with team teammates, and new opponents. In just doing that, it will broaden his perspectives and force him to learn to fit into different roles.

For Vancouver, Sorensen has built an effective team that has been among the most enjoyable teams to watch play since 2025. The team will still be good but there are real problems on the horizon. There is the ongoing likelihood of relocation which might not be well received by players or coaches.

From the bottom of ???????????? hearts, we thank ????????????, Seba.From the moment you arrived, you gave this club your everything. Your passion, your leadership, and your unwavering belief. You inspired your teammates and this city alike. pic.twitter.com/pKGxQNgcww

There is so much uncertainty that it is easy to see why Berhalter might have been reluctant to consider remaining.

It is going to be tough for Vancouver to keep its positive momentum going in this current environment and the loss of Berhalter is another sign things might becoming unglued.
