UNITED STATES U-20 head coach Marko Mitrovic names his roster for the September window camp – which will be the team’s final camp before the start of the 2025 U-20 World Cup in Chile. The camp will run from September 1-8 in San Pedro del Pinatar, Spain and the U.S. team will face Morocco twice – on September 5 and September 7.

The roster is strong and most of the players have been with the team throughout the cycle where the results have been positive. Since Marko Mitrovic took control of the team last September, the team has posted wins over France, South Korea, Mexico, and Colombia.

A total of 23 players make up the roster and the World Cup roster will be capped at 21. This means that not everyone on this roster will make the final team for Chile and cuts will have to be made.

Here is the roster along with some thoughts.

GOALKEEPERS (3): Adam Beaudry (Colorado Springs Switchbacks; Castle Pines, Colo.), Duran Ferree (San Diego FC; San Diego, Calif.), Diego Kochen (FC Barcelona/ESP; Miramar, Fla.)

DEFENDERS (8): Matai Akinmboni (Bournemouth/ENG; Upper Marlboro, Md.), Reed Baker-Whiting (Seattle Sounders; Seattle, Wash.), Luca Bombino (San Diego FC; Saugus, Calif.), Noah Cobb (Colorado Rapids; Chattanooga, Tenn.), Ethan Kohler (SC Verl/GER; Campbell, Calif.), Nolan Norris (FC Dallas; Fort Worth, Texas), Francis Westfield (Philadelphia Union; Philadelphia, Pa.), Josh Wynder (Benfica; Louisville, Ken.)

MIDFIELDERS (6): Matthew Corcoran (Rhode Island FC; Dallas, Texas), Benjamin Cremaschi (Inter Miami; Key Biscayne, Fla.), Taha Habroune (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Brooklyn Raines (Houston Dynamo; Chicago, Ill.), Pedro Soma (San Diego FC; Coconut Creek, Fla.), Niko Tsakiris (San Jose Earthquakes; Saratoga, Calif.)

FORWARDS (6): Luke Brennan (Atlanta United; Atlanta, Ga.), Cole Campbell (Borussia, Dortmund/GER; Peachtree City, Ga.), Zavier Gozo (Real Salt Lake; Eagle Mountain, Utah), Serge Ngoma Jr. (New York Red Bulls; North Plainfield, N.J.), David Vazquez (San Diego FC; Los Angeles, Calif.), Marcos Zambrano (Real Salt Lake; Gladwyne, Pa.)

With the exception of Augsburg central defender Noahkai Banks, who is with the full USMNT during the September window, this roster accurately reflects most of what a first-choice roster would look like.

The rules regarding youth releases for U.S. youth national teams have changed in recent years. It used to be clubs were never required to release players for youth team duty. Now, however, clubs must release during international windows – such as this camp. But clubs do not have to release players for the U-20 World Cup.

The best guess is that Mitrovic is not likely going to use this camp to call-up players he knows he won’t get for the World Cup. If true, that should be very encouraging because this is mostly a top team and the U.S. team’s success in Chile was mostly going to be driven by the ability to get most of its top players – which it appears to be doing.

The biggest exception would be Peyton Miller, the New England Revolution homegrown who plays both left back and left wing. Miller, 18, is a 2007-born player which means he is eligible for the U-20 World Cup in 2027 as well. He is one of the top teenagers in the U.S. program and starts for the Revolution every game.

Miller’s absence could be attributed to the Revolution’s reluctance to release him for the World Cup amid a long-shot playoff push. New England plays during the September window and if their playoff stance continues to fade, perhaps he would be released for the World Cup. On the other hand, maybe Mitrovic did not select him and went with other left backs or wingers instead.

Another notable absence would also be Sergio Orgel of Chicago who starts most games in the club’s midfield. Among all players in the U.S. U-20 pool, he has among the most first-team minutes. Whether his omission was due to Mitrovic’s choice, or knowing he wouldn’t be released for the World Cup remains to be seen.

Brentford goalkeeper Julian Eyestone is not on the squad along with Brondby goalkeeper Gavin Beavers but typically getting backup goalkeepers for U-20 teams is difficult as clubs are hesitant to release a player for a month if he is simply going to be a backup. Right now, it seems like Diego Kochen is the U.S. U-20 starter.

As mentioned, this roster could be a sign that Mitrovic is progressing positively with release talks. But there are still a few more days left in the transfer window and if Cole Campbell, Josh Wynder, or Matai Akinmboni are loaned, that could change everything.

But as of now, those three players are among the best players on this team.

One of the strengths of this team is central defense with Banks, Wynder, and Akinmboni and if Mitrovic was able to get one of them, it would be good. Two would see the team’s chances for success improve dramatically. Three would be a home run. Even with Banks with the full team, he still might be in play for the U-20 World Cup.

Campbell is also a top player for this team and the speedy Borussia Dortmund winger was the subject of transfer interest this past month, although it has cooled recently. But Campbell brings an elite level of speed to this team, and it could open the attack.

It really appears as if most MLS teams are going to cooperate. San Diego has four players on this roster including Luca Bombino, who is a regular starter, along with Pedro Soma and David Vazquez, who both joined over the summer and are playing. Inter Miami has Benja Cremaschi, who could end up being this team’s World Cup captain. Frankie Westfield starts for Philadelphia, who have a history of cooperating with releases.

We won’t know the World Cup team until it is released on September 18, but everything should be encouraging with releases of top players.

Playing time is always an issue with U-20 team as players make the transition from youth to first team levels. Obviously, it bodes well to have more players who are starters. At the beginning of the cycle, there were questions about if enough players would emerge as club starters to improve their development.

But 2025 has been very good for the U.S. team in terms of improving club situations.

Westfield and Bombino could be the starting right and left backs, respectively, at the U-20 World Cup and both are on pace for 2000-minute seasons.

Cremaschi isn’t a starter at Miami but he makes regular appearances amid a star-studded roster. Brooklyn Raines has emerged as a starter for Houston. Zavier Gozo is also now starting most games for Real Salt Lake.

The situations for Luke Brennan in Atlanta, Reed Baker-Whiting in Seattle, and Taha Habroune in Columbus have all improved significantly with all three contributing a lot for their clubs over the past month.

Among the European contingent, it has been a little slower. Obviously, Kochen, Akinmboni, Banks, Wynder, and Campbell are attached to very big clubs in very big leagues. These players are potentially looking at loans or transfers to aid in their development this season. Still, Banks, Wynder, and Campbell have all made first team debuts – which is an important milestone.
