THE MLS SEASON resumed after the first phase of Leagues Cup, and ushered in the start of the playoff races. From an American perspective, there was plenty of good and bad to run through as we head into mid-August.

Let’s start in Chicago, or Bridgeview

LAFC played Chicago to a 2-2 draw on Saturday night and the big story was the debut of Son Heung-Min who came into the game in the 70th minute with Chicago up 2-1. The game turned around in rapid succession. At first it looked like Chicago was going to go up 3-1 but Jonathan Bamba’s shot hit the post. Then immediately, LAFC went to the other end with a Nathan Ordaz pass that sent Son in alone for what eventually turned out to be a penalty – which Denis Bouanga would convert for a 2-2 draw, which is how it would end.

Hugo ?? Post ?? SonThe sequence that earned us a PK following a VAR review. pic.twitter.com/iWuUm7Yhtg

Some takes from this game is that Son Heung-Min is going to be very good for LAFC. He will score, he will draw a lot of attention to LAFC, and he will be a very charismatic presence. Great signing.

The attention should have gone to Son, but there were a lot of Americans who played well in this game. Brian Gutierrez had a strong game for the Chicago Fire. He hit the post and was regularly dangerous off the dribble. Ryan Hollingshead scored the opening goal for LAFC of a fortuitous bounce off a corner kick and Timothy Tillman played well for LAFC in the attack. In goal, Chris Brady made five saves for Chicago while conceding two.

It was a controversial result in how it ended, but the New York Red Bulls defeated Real Salt Lake 2-1 thanks to two goals from Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting. The second goal drew the ire of Real Salt Lake after Choupo-Moting missed an earlier penalty, he was awarded a second deep into stoppage time – which he then converted.

Real Salt Lake took an early lead in this game on a terrific counterattack which saw USMNT playmaker Diego Luna find William Agada in the attack. Agada then slid the ball over to U.S. U-20 attacker Zavier Gozo.

Big start for RSL:#USMNT playmaker Diego Luna to William Agada to U.S U-20 attacker Zavier GozoTerrible start for #RBNY pic.twitter.com/rXRfTdlenv

Gozo, 18, is playing well and looks ready for the U-20 World Cup, should RSL release him. Luna, meanwhile, was sent off in the second half for a second yellow card.

Matt Turner made his return to the New England Revolution and made five saves in a comfortable 2-0 win over a very poor DC United team. Turner’s best save came in the 37th minute with a low shot from the side.

It’s good to see Matt Turner playing again. Makes a nice save early tonight as the Revs and DC United are 0-0 at HT #USMNT pic.twitter.com/SmUCf6wbPd

Just as important for the Revs is how the team played with Turner. There was a lot more confidence having an improvement in goal. But again, there will be bigger tests ahead than DC United.

Also of note is that Peyton Miller assisted Carles Gil in the 70th minute to make it 2-0. Miller is one of the top American teenagers in the game right now. Rumors are continuing to circulate that he could be gone from New England after the season. Maybe as early as this window with a loan back to the Revs until January when he’s 18.

Carles Gil has passed Taylor Twellman for the most goal contributions in Revs history (130)!! #NEvDC pic.twitter.com/YoPz8Ertax

For a team like the Philadelphia Union, who are going for the Supporters Shield, a home game against Toronto needs to be a win. And for most of Saturday’s game, it seemed as if Philly was going to hold onto a 1-0 lead. But Toronto found a late equalizer and put a dent in the Union’s hopes for a first overall seed.

Indiana Vassilev put Philly up early but it was not enough. Milan Illoski came into the game in the 67th minute but did not look dangerous in his club debut. Cavan Sullivan came on late in the 88th. None of Philly’s American players, except for Vassilev, were dangerous although the club also has an eye towards Wednesday’s Open Cup.

You never know what you are going to get from Inter Miami. Sure, when Messi plays, they can be very good. But they can also be bad at times too due to an inability to defend. But without Messi, they’re very vulnerable – especially when going against a talented attacking team.

Such was the case when Miami travelled north within Florida to face a very good attacking team in Orlando and were soundly beaten 4-1. Such a performances should give hesitancy towards picking Miami to win MLS Cup. How are they going to go through several rounds of playoffs without a bad performance such as this?

His words, not ours ???? pic.twitter.com/KUGCpvcAGv

Meanwhile, Alex Freeman continues to get better every week, every month, and seemingly every game. In this game it was his defense and his tackling ability. In Leagues Cup, it has been his offense. There are rumors floating about interest in Freeman, but he is still so new to the first team level that he has a lot to learn. There is a risk that moving takes him out of a starting role, which could jeopardize his spot on the national team – which actually seems strong at the moment.

San Diego continued to impress on the road and while playing a load of young players. Right now, Mikey Varas is in contention for Coach of the Year. This time it was a 2-0 win over an overmatched Sporting Kansas City – a club that looks lost.

Luca Bombino looks in great position to be heading to the U-20 World Cup right now as he is impressing consistently every game at the left back position. With Oscar Verhoeven injured, Aidan Harangi played right back and again looked like a top U.S. youth international right now (even if he would likely be a backup).

What is great about San Diego is that they are not just looking for young players from within their own academy, they are going out and finding young players struggling for minutes at other clubs in MLS or in Europe and are bringing them in. The value they have found and help create has been very impressive. Now just wait until their academy gets fully operational.

Then, of course, they supplement them with players like Chucky Lozano and Anders Dreyer – who will be nominated for MVP.

Buenos días, SD. Como durmieron? pic.twitter.com/KAmUqUFisQ

But it works.

It hasn’t been a good season for the Houston Dynamo. They were hoping that the addition of Jack McGlynn would be enough to make their midfield powerful enough to compete for a playoff spot. That just hasn’t been the case. McGlynn has still played well but the supporting cast just wasn’t there.

McGlynn had his best game of the season on Saturday in a 2-2 away draw with Austin. He scored both goals, one was a penalty the other was a hard shot that took a deflection, but he did a lot more. His passing was on point and he created over half a dozen good chances. He was playing like a top midfielder.

Battlin' Jack ?? pic.twitter.com/XXhrdCiAvO

But even with McGlynn at his best, it wasn’t enough. Houston is only four points out of a playoff spot, but they just aren’t consistent enough. It would be surprising if they made it.

Meanwhile, Duane Holmes has turned out to be a nice surprise for Houston. Since he was able to play in June, he has added a lot of grit to the midfield.

As for Austin, they are also better than expected this year. After the loss of Sebastian Driussi, the club has become a little more well rounded and better defensively. Owen Wolff has started to thrive despite his father no longer being the coach.
