THE UNITED STATES U-19 team continued its World Cup qualifying campaign with a 3-0 win over El Salvador on Tuesday night in Puebla, Mexico. After an opening 3-0 win over Haiti, the U.S. team now has a perfect six points from two games with a tournament-best +6 goal differential.

In the win over El Salvador, the U.S. team dominated possession but struggled from the run of play to break he game open. It was not until the 35th minute when the U.S. team was able to capitalize on its possession. The play began when U.S. captain Christopher Applewhite sent a long ball deep into El Salvador’s half and defender Hugo Aguilar attempted to head t back to his keeper, Oliver Alegira. U.S. attacker Din Klapija made a run to intercept the ball from Aguilar but was fouled by Alegira for a penalty. Klapija took the kick himself and sent an unstoppable shot into the top left corner.

With the U.S. team now ahead, El Salvador elected to remain in its very defensive low-block formation likely because goal differential is a tie breaker to decide a place in the knockouts.

In the second half, the U.S. team doubled its lead through yet another penalty. In the 61st minute, El Salvador defender Jose Gutierrez harshly fouled Jaidyn Contreras in the box. Ruben Ramos then stepped up to convert the second penalty.

The final goal came in the 89th minute when substitute winger Xanti Oyharcabal sent a floating ball to the far post from a free kick. Applewhite was able to get on the end of it, and head it back to the center of the goal where Christopher Cupps tapped it into the goal from close range for a 3-0 win.

Here are a few thoughts on the game

Head coach Gonzalo Segares was forced to make a change in the 19th minute when Nimfasha Berchimas injured his calf while being on the wrong end of a tackle. He was stretchered off the field but was back on the bench towards the end of the game.

It remains to be seen if Berchimas will be able to continue at this tournament but his absence leaves the team shorthanded. Dylan Vanney replaced him but there is also Xanti Oyharcabal on the bench as a possible replacement in the starting lineup.

For the U.S. team, it is all about the quarterfinal and finding the best option for that one game.

The U.S. team has now scored six goals in this tournament with four goals coming from the penalty spot. It is not a good habit to rely on favorable referee decisions for goals, even if each of the penalties was deserved. In this region, calls can be very uneven.

But this is the benefit towards controlling possession as much as the U.S. team has. In each of the first two games, the U.S. team has had 70% of the possession and between both games is out-passing opponents 1197-440 in completed attempts.

Klapija fires the United States ahead ???? pic.twitter.com/yeOEtnIdki

When the U.S. team has that much possession, it puts opponents under a lot of pressure to be mistake-free defensively. At this level with teenagers in CONCACAF, it is very likely that when you have enough possession and can eventually get the ball into the box, there is going to be a foul.

The U.S. team was simply able to be in enough dangerous positions that eventually opponents were going to make major mistakes.

Fortunately, the U.S. has been excellent in taking penalties.

The U.S. team was particularly disappointing with its inability to create enough chances from the run of play. Against El Salvador, the goals were from two penalties and another from a free kick.

This team has been disappointed with its ability to break down a low-block. Too often it was basic things such has bad touches and overhit passes.

The biggest problem, right now, is that the speed of play needs to desperately pick up in the attacking third. The U.S. team needs to find its combinations quicker especially when opposing defenses are not quite set. There needs to be more explosive dribbling and better chemistry among the players to combine.

Set piece perfection????‍???? pic.twitter.com/6K8JlEe4IN

Most of this problem can be explained by the fact that the U.S. team is still getting to know each other. As has been widely reported, this is not close to the best U.S. U-20 team and Segares was denied most of his top players by their clubs. He has had to try to pick out a roster with many players who have not been regularly with this team.

For this game against El Salvador, Segares elected to keep most of his starting lineup in tact (making only one change) to try to build up chemistry. But he is taking a gamble in not giving more minutes to players who might be better fits.

Unfortunately for Segares, the chemistry is still not close to where it needs to be ahead of the quarterfinal, that alone will dictate qualification for the U-20 World Cup.

One benefit Segares has in that in the quarterfinal, teams will not be able to continue to bunker if the U.S. team takes a lead. At that point, goal differential will no longer matter, only results will. The U.S. team will likely get to play a more open game and have more space to operate.

The U.S. team sits comfortably atop Group A with six points and a +6 goal differential. Its opponent on Friday, Cuba, has three points and a +2 goal differential. Hait, meanwhile, has three points and a -2 goal differential.

The U.S. team wins its group with a win or a draw on Friday. But goal differential, obviously still matters. Cuba will need to try to maintain its edge over Haiti (in case El Salvador defeats Haiti).

“We’re going to keep going, go as a team” Ruben Ramos ???? pic.twitter.com/oBMDUamyjX

The knockouts are set by the top first place finisher standings, top second place standings, and the two third place teams. If the U.S. wins, it could get the top group stage finisher if it posts a high goal differential.

For the U.S. team, a win against Cuba ensures the team of a top two finishes among group stage winners. It will finish as the top group stage winner and the top overall knockout seed if it wins and finishes with a goal differential better than Mexico (assuming Mexico defeats Guatemala on Thursday).

Regardless of goal differentials, the U.S. and Mexico are both assured of facing a third place group finisher with a win it its group stage finale.
