WHEN COMPARING THE 26 PLAYERS on the U.S. roster, there are many different stories. Some players, such as Christian Pulisic and Tyler Adams, have been with the team for years and played in youth World Cups together. Others such as Folarin Balogun and Malik Tillman joined the program to great excitement after representing other nations at the youth levels. Then there are others players like Tim Weah, Joe Scally, and Gio Reyna who were highly rated as youth players and continued to progress to this point where they are now on their second World Cup roster.

The journey of Matt Freese is one of the more remarkable stories on this year’s team. Two years ago, no one would have projected him to have much of a chance to even be the team’s third-string keeper. But now just days away from the opener, Wayne, PA native looks to be the team’s No. 1.

“As a competitor, you always want to be on the field,” Freese said. “Always want to help your team in whatever capacity. And this doesn't change in this moment. Whatever I'm called upon to do, I'm ready to do. I derive a lot of my confidence from the hard work that I've put in. And I've worked quite hard. Now is a time to be confident and remember all the work that's been put in.”

Growing up on the Main Line outside Philadelphia, Freese comes from a highly accomplished family in science and medicine. His paternal grandparents were scientists in Germany who immigrated to the United States after the second World War. His grandfather, Dr. Ernst Freese, became Chief of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the Laboratory of Molecular Biology at the National Institutes of Health where he made significant contributions in the field of molecular biology. Freese’s father, Andrew Freese, was a neurosurgeon who earned his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Freese, 27, showed promise as a soccer goalkeeper at a young age where he developed within the Philadelphia Union’s youth academy. But was also able to balance academic rigor and eventually left the Union to attend college after he was accepted at Harvard University. He played for the Crimson in 2017 and 2018 but eventually took a leave from the prestigious school to sign a homegrown contract with the Union.

After breaking through with the Philadelphia Union, Freese was eventually able to earn his degree from Harvard in 2022 after taking courses during the COVID era when play was limited. Looking back, he considers that crucial to his development as a player.

“When you're a professional athlete at age 18, 19, sometimes it can be difficult to keep a routine, keep a regimen that keeps you focused and keeps you hungry,” Freese explains. “And for me, taking classes was something that occupied my time, occupied my mind, and gave a very natural release. Off the field that I think at that age was necessary. It's different now. I'm 27, I've been a pro for eight, nine years. It's quite different now and I know how to handle it. But at that point in my life, it was incredibly important."

Freese had a big breakthrough in his career in 2023 when he was traded by Philadelphia to New York City FC. In Philadelphia, he had been playing mostly behind longtime veteran Andre Blake who has been one of the best keepers in league history. But in New York City, Freese was able to play regularly as the No. 1. In 2024, he was named New York City’s Most Valuable Player of the season.

But it was not until 2025 when Freese would make inroads with the United States national team. He was called up by Mauricio Pochettino to the January camp that year but Freese did not play. It was not until June 7 in a 2-1 loss to Turkey when Freese would earn his first cap. He started the duration of the Gold Cup and then through the fall friendlies.

Thus far in 2026, Freese has been in a rotation with Turner but with Freese starting the 2-1 loss to Germany in the final friendly before the World Cup, it indicates he is likely Pochettino’s choice for the World Cup.

“You dream of this opportunity, you work for the opportunity, but you never know if it's going to come,” Freese said. “I learned probably nine years ago, the ones that work hard without the promise of reward are the ones that usually succeed.”

Historically in the modern era, the U.S. national team has been strong in the goalkeeping positions with Tony Meola, Brad Friedel, Kasey Keller, Tim Howard, and later Matt Turner all having been World Cup starters.

But Freese is set to become the first U.S. national team starting goalkeeper based in MLS at the time of the World Cup and the only starting World Cup U.S. keeper whose only experience has been domestic. When asked, Freese admits he blocks out comparisons between him and previous U.S. keepers only to say he was heavily inspired by them growing up.

“I don't hear it,” Freese said. “I am not really listening to anyone outside of the guys with me and the coaching staff obviously. I am just focused on just doing my thing each and every day and being present with that mindset. With that in mind, it is fair to say the U.S. has had a great goalkeeping core historically. I was a fan of that goalkeeping core for much of my life, still am. It's an honor to be on this team and be part of that group to hopefully continue that great legacy.”

With this World Cup coming on home soil, many of the storylines surrounding the team are big-picture oriented. Everyone knows that the legacy of the 1994 World Cup was positive for the sport in the United States as the host country. MLS began play in the aftermath of the tournament, youth participation increased, and games became more prevalent on television.

That then leads to questions over what is the potential legacy for the sport in this country following this tournament? Following training in California where 5000 fans were invited to attended (after the federation received 30,000 requests), Freese sees potential.

“It means so much to be able to be in a position to inspire the next generation,” Freese explained. “And there's a compounding effect to it, obviously. We were inspired by the previous generation. Hopefully we inspire the new generation. The more we inspire them, the better the following generation will be. So to be in a position to train in front of these people today and hopefully play on Friday in front of all the fans and inspire them. Is such a unique opportunity and one that none of us take for granted. We're working as hard as we can, as focused as we can to continue to leave the next generation inspired.”

Freese might be correct that if the U.S. team does well, the team could have a massive effect on the continued growth of the sport in the United States. But having that only creates added pressure on the team.

But Freese looks at that pressure with a positive mindset as well.

“The bigger stakes in a tournament like this create incredible opportunities,” Freese said. “Pressure makes diamonds. And I think we're a group of 26 guys that want to show that we're bunch of diamonds.”
