He is most likely not in the mix for a spot on the United States Men’s National Team for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar, but this fall is still shaping up to be very pivotal in the career of Alan Soñora.

The 23-year-old New Jersey-born midfielder, who has spent the majority of his life in Argentina and currently plays for one of the top clubs in that country, Independiente, is coming to a crossroads in his career.

In the last year, Soñora has risen to the fore as one of the top players for El Rojo and performed at a high enough level that he received a phone call from United States Men’s National Team Head Coach Gregg Berhalter, who invited Sonora to a camp last December, but the son of MLS legend Diego Soñora was unable to go because of club duties.

A subsequent national team call never came, but Soñora has remained one of Independiente’s most consistent players in 2022, featuring in 21 league games, 16 of them starts, and scoring two goals, along with several exquisite individual displays in the Independiente midfield.

A 23-year-old American is wearing the #10 for one of the biggest clubs in Argentina and has scored in 3 of his last 5 matches.Alan Soñora with another goal moments ago off of a free kick. pic.twitter.com/QG9ZZCfwuA

00:51. El gol el 90% del movimiento PERFECTO de Soñora, no lo puedo dejar de ver pic.twitter.com/BEDtf2rm6Q

But at the time of writing, Sonora’s future is cloudy. Just a few months ago an extension with Independiente seemed inevitable, but after an initial offer was turned down, the club had not reached back out to the player’s representative with a subsequent offer.

In that time, things spiraled downhill for Independiente. Instability has rocked the club; coach Eduardo Dominguez was fired and fans took to the streets demanding elections to try to remove the club’s top directors.

“Quiero renovar pero no me llamaron todavía, siguen sin hacerlo” ???? Alan Soñora#Independiente @santiwaddle pic.twitter.com/xPDKno9BJj

All in all, chaos is surrounding a club that has long been plagued with financial problems.

The well-spoken Soñora actually met with reporters last week to discuss the off-field issues going on at the club and remarked during the scrum that the club had not been back in touch with his representatives regarding a new contract.

Sonora has quickly become a fan favorite, so that piece of news was met with the usual amount of disbelief and chagrin by Independiente fans on social media channels. Coincidentally, a day after his public remarks, it was reported that Independiente reached back out to Soñora and his people about a new contract.

Independiente will need to work quickly, and considering the financial issues that the club has, it will take a big effort to have Soñora wearing the club’s No. 10 shirt again in 2023.

On top of that, American Soccer Now has learned from sources close to the player that there are offers from both MLS and Europe. Clubs in Italy, Germany and England have all expressed an interest in the player, who in particular has always had a desire to play in English football. A move to a Championship club in England would be the most logical first step.

ASN has also been told that Soñora would meet the requirements to obtain a work visa to be able to play in England.

While MLS remains a possibility, the motivation appears to be Europe for a player that is looking to take that next step.

The Argentine domestic season ends in late October and if Sonora has not renewed with Independiente by that time, it is all but certain this his future will be overseas.

A national team appearance will probably have to wait for now for the creative midfielder, but a step forward on the club front is starting to come into view.
