THE UNITED STATES U-20 national team is assembled in Florida to kickoff a calendar year that will conclude with the U-20 World Cup in Chile. Head coach Marko Mitrovic named a 22-player roster for a January camp that will look to build depth and quality to the player pool.

Last year, 2024, was a good period for the U-20 team. The team successfully qualified for the World Cup despite losing to Mexico in heartbreaking fashion in the CONCACAF final. That was actually the only blemish in what was a year full of great results.

The cycle began last March and it included a win over England. Then in June, the team posted wins over Argentina in Buenos Aires and Uruguay in Montevideo. Then there was World Cup qualification.

In October, Marko Mitrovic was hired as the head coach. He saw the team defeat Chile in Santiago in his first camp. Then wins over South Korea and France in October.

Looking at the wins in 2024, it was murders row: England, Argentina, Uruguay, Chile, South Korea, and France.

Now in 2025, Mitrovic will look to build on that run. Those steps begin with this January camp.

Here are some thoughts on this roster.

Goalkeepers (2): Adam Beaudry (Colorado Rapids; Castle Pines, Colo.), Gavin Beavers (Real Salt Lake; Henderson, Nev.)

Defenders (9): Freddie Anderson (Stoke City/ENG; Manchester, England), Luca Bombino (LAFC; Saugus, Calif.), Grayson Dettoni (Bayern Munich/GER; Munich, Germany), Aiden Harangi (Eintracht Frankfurt/GER; Reston, Va.), Ethan Kohler (Werder Bremen/GER; Campbell, Calif.), Drew Murray (Freiburg/GER; San Jose, Calif.), Nolan Norris (FC Dallas; Fort Worth, Texas), Owen Presthus (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Chibuike Ukaegbu (Sacramento Republic FC; Roseville, Calif.)

Midfielders (7): Matthew Corcoran (Birmingham Legion FC; Dallas, Texas), Taha Habroune (Columbus Crew; Columbus, Ohio), Darius Lane (Brighton Hove Albion/ENG; London, England), Cruz Medina (San Jose Earthquakes; San Francisco, Calif.), Bryan Moyado (LAFC; La Puente, Calif.), Sergio Oregel Jr. (Chicago Fire FC; Chicago, Ill.), Brooklyn Raines (Houston Dynamo FC; Chicago, Ill.)

Forwards (4): Keyrol Figueroa (Liverpool/ENG; Warrington, England), Caden Glover (St. Louis City SC; Columbia, Ill.), Zavier Gozo (Real Salt Lake; Eagle Mountain, Utah), Ruben Ramos Jr. (LA Galaxy; La Puente, Calif.)

If the World Cup took place this summer (when it typically is hosted) and Marko Mitrovic was able to secure all of his releases, then most of the team would be known. With the team having such an outstanding fall across two camps, the players who participated in those wins would be on the World Cup team. It’s hard to see a scenario where Mitrovic wouldn’t be happy with that group.

The new timing of the World Cup changes everything. It now begins on September 27 and ends on October 19. Part of the tournament will be played in the October FIFA window (October 6-14).

It is true that Mitrovic might keep a few spots open for players to just participate during the October window when they can be released. But it’s very unlikely that he will get all his top players. Unlike the Olympics, this U-20 World Cup will take place during the seasons of just about every league in the world (certainly every league where the players of the U.S. team play).

What this means is that this U-20 cycle is all about depth. The U.S. team is not alone. Teams that are successful at the 2025 U-20 World Cup will likely be the deepest. Which teams can effectively go to second, third, and even fourth choice options and still be able to compete?

This camp has some players who would make the first choice U-20 World Cup team (examples would be Brooklyn Raines, Nolan Norris, Adam Beaudry) but most of the players are on the outside of that team. But there is a good chance for players to play themselves onto the World Cup team given that it will require depth.

The list of top players not here is long. This camp takes place outside of an international window and it therefore requires players to be released from clubs voluntarily. It is important to note that not all MLS teams cooperated with releasing players.

Luke Brennan and Noah Cobb were likely not let go by Atlanta United. The Philadelphia Union did not release any players and that likely affected David Vazquez. Peyton Miller at the New England Revolution is not here. Reed Baker-Whiting of the Seattle Sounders is not here.

Another missing top player is Benja Cremaschi who is with the senior USMNT this month.

Among those in Europe, the top three central defenders are not in camp with Benfica’s Josh Wynder, Bournemouth’s Matai Akinmboni (who just transferred from DC United), and Augsburg’s Noahkai Banks.

Goalkeepers Diego Kochen at Barcelona and Julian Eyestone at Brentford are with their clubs. Defensive midfielder Pedro Soma is also still with Barcelona. Top winger Cole Campbell is with Borussia Dortmund.

The players who have the most to gain from this camp are in positions of need.

The central defenders in this camp have a huge opportunity. The top three central defenders in the pool are not here and it seems unlikely Mitrovic will get all of Wynder, Banks, and Akinmboni for the World Cup. The depth chart after those three is unclear. Noah Cobb is in that mix and is also not at this camp.

Bayern Munich reserve defender Grayson Dettoni has wanted to be involved and will now get his opportunity to showcase his ability. Freddie Anderson will make his debut for the U.S. at any age level and his call-up is a bit of a surprise as his eligibility was not widely known in public circles. His father, Viv Anderson, was a former English international. His mom also appeared to have been born in England. Anderson is a central defender and could make a case. Freiburg II’s Drew Murray also will get a look.

The next big position to establish depth is at center forward. Even when everyone is healthy and released, the No. 9 position isn’t well settled. Keyrol Figueroa was highly rated during his time with the U-17 team but isn’t as obvious a prospect at the U-20 level. He got the call here (and it should also be noticed that Liverpool let him go) and is still battling for his position. St. Louis forward Caden Glover also has a chance to make the most of what is an open race at this position.
