THE WEEKEND FOR Americans abroad was lackluster on Saturday but then as the calendar changed to November on Sunday, a wave of better performances from American players salvaged the weekend. It still won’t be considered one of the great or even very good weekends for Americans abroad, but over the high points were well worth talking about.

Here is how I saw the weekend

Among many of the top American players, the news wasn’t so great.

The worst news came on Saturday when Christian Pulisic was named to the initial starting lineup for Chelsea against Burnley but was pulled from the game prior to kickoff due to another hamstring issue that will require a scan. Frank Lampard said it was considered minor but the club will surely take a precautionary approach with the U.S international. Chelsea went on to win 3-0.

Lampard reports that Pulisic had a small sensation in his hamstring which is why he was pulled out of the game in the warm-up. He adds that Christian is frustrated and the muscle will need a scan.#BURCHE

In Germany, Tyler Adams, who has missed time recently with a back injury, was not in the matchday roster for RB Leipzig for its 1-0 loss on the road against Borussia Monchengladbach. Gio Reyna only played the final 15 minutes for Borussia Dortmund and he helped see out a 2-0 win over Arminia Bielefeld. He completed 9/10 in passing but was generally not that busy.

Chris Richards remains a top defensive prospect in American soccer but went as an unused substitute for Bayern Munich and it is fair to ask where the first team minutes will come in the near future? His made some important strides but will a loan in January materialize to help him to the next level?

Sergino Dest played the final 21 minutes for Barcelona and was busy – 29 touches and 21/22 passing – but he could not help Barcelona win. It’s 1-1 draw with Deportivo Alaves now has it with just a single point from its last three La Liga games. In this game, Konrad de la Fuente was an unused sub for Barcelona but with the Spanish giants struggling, he might get an opportunity sooner than later. He started for Barcelona B on Sunday in a 0-0 draw against Prat where he had a shot hit the post.

Timothy Weah was once again left out of the matchday roster for Lille. In Ligue 2, U.S. national team and U.S. U-23 hopeful, forward Nicholas Gioacchini was out of action for the second straight game for SM Caen following his COVID-19 diagnosis. His Caen team lost 3-1 to league leaders Paris FC (who saw Patrick Koffi go as an unused substitute)

In the Eredivisie, California winger Ulysses Llanez was an unused sub for Heerenveen in a 4-1 win over Sparta Rotterdam.

Meanwhile, DeAndre Yedlin continues to be MIA for Newcastle United and did not make the roster in a 2-1 win over Everton.

Ledezma assists in PSV debut

One of the most exciting moments of the weekend came on Sunday when PSV hosted ADO den Haag. With PSV up 2-0 in the 74th minute, top young American attacking midfielder Richard Ledezma entered the game for his first-team debut in the Eredivisie.

It turned out to be a dream debut for Ledezma. In the 84th minute he set up New Zealand international Ryan Thomas for a terrific strike to move PSV into a 3-0 lead.

Richard Ledezma’s assist in his PSV debut... the U.S U-23 playmaker connecting with New Zealand’s Ryan Thomas - who had a great finish. Ledezma went a perfect 16/16 in passing (12/12 in the attacking half) in his 16 mins of action in a 4-0 win over ADO den Haag https://t.co/v2DgWlstnp

But it wasn’t just the assist in his debut that made the debut memorable for Ledezma, the 2019 U.S. U-20 World Cup star also completed 16/16 passing in the game and was a perfect 12/12 passing in the attacking half.

PSV has a ton of talent and competition for playing time is always tight. He was always likely to play for the first team at some point given his hefty non-EU minimum salary. The club was invested in Ledezma but he was always going to have to make the most of what limited minutes he received in his first few outings.

With that said, it was a great performance from Ledezma who did what he had to do to earn the trust of manager Roger Schmidt for continued looks in the weeks and months ahead.

In important news, Weston McKennie returned to the starting lineup for Juventus for the first time since recovering from COVID-19 diagnosis. Midweek he came off the bench in a loss to Barcelona but in this game against Spezia, he earned the start.

It did not take McKennie long to make a big impact when in the 14th minute he made an excellent run into the box for a dangerous position. He probably could have scored but instead played a simple square pass to Alvaro Morata for an easy finish for the opening goal. It was the first assist for the Texan since joining the reigning Italian champions.

McKennie ended up playing roughly an hour. The overall outing was solid even if his defensive numbers were generally quiet – although Juventus controlled this one throughout and eventually walked away with a 4-1 win. He stepped up when he had to defensively and didn’t see too much of the ball because he didn’t need to. He generally played further out wide compared with his typical central position.

But with Juventus winning and Mckennie having the decisive moment on the opening goal, he only helped himself to remain in the starting lineup.

His raw numbers were pretty good but they don’t reflect how important his role was in scoring that opening goal – a big moment for any club trying to reverse its fortune after a disappointing start to the season.

Werder Bremen is quietly doing exactly what it needs to do in order to avoid another difficult relegation battle in 2020/21. It is winning the games it has to against the weaker teams while also picking up important draws. After a season opening loss, it has two wins and three draws in the most recent five games.

On Saturday, Werder Bremen played Eintracht Frankfurt to a 1-1 away draw for yet another valuable point. Earlier in the week, Werder manager Florian Kohfeldt told the media he wanted to shift American forward Josh Sargent into a position where he would be more dangerous around the goal. Thus far, the St. Louis had not scored, despite playing well, as he often drifted further back into the midfield.

Sargent took advantage of the opportunity and scored the opening goal in the 51st minute on an impressive finish. While the lead did not hold, Sargent had a positive performance in yet another result for Werder.

Josh Sargent’s first of the season comes at a big time for Werder #USMNT pic.twitter.com/hmVMJ4IzFb

His raw numbers reflected a solid and active effort. He saw the ball for an underdog team on the road and managed three shots. With more efforts like this, he should score more regularly as the season progresses.

Matt Miazga, 25, has been off to a strong start since joining Anderlecht on loan from Chelsea earlier in October but the New Jersey-born and raised central defender had his biggest test so far when Anderlecht hosted league leaders Antwerp on Sunday. Entering this game, only three points separated Antwerp from seventh place Anderlecht as the standings remained tight in Belgium’s top flight.

Staring with Matt Miazga on the backline were Kemar Lawrence at left back and Michael Murillo at right back – so three former New York Red Bulls were tasked with taking on Antwerp. In the end, each one acquitted himself very well.

Miazga, in particular, only had 24 touches in this game – which is not a lot for a central defender who went the distance.

A clean sheet win over the leaders was certainly a positive weekend for an Anderlecht team that is trying to return to being among the elite teams in Belgium. Anderlecht only moved up one place into seventh with the win but the standings remain incredibly tight with just two points separating Miazga and Co. from new leaders Sporting Charleroi.

On the national team front, Miazga is quietly building a case that he should not just be on the U.S. team, but be a starter as well.

U.S. U-23 winger Emmanuel Sabbi, 22, has been a huge asset for OB Odense to start the Danish Superliga season. On Saturday, he scored his third goal of the season in a 1-0 win over AC Horsens. He now has three goals and an assist in 527 minutes to start the season.

The goal was the result of poor defending, but also Sabbi’s knack for being in the right place at the right time. He did well to use his physical strength to remain in position once the clearance was botched.

Sabbi remains another very good Olympic option and perhaps Jason Kreis will be able to secure his release for Olympic qualifying – whenever that happens. His raw athleticism remains a huge asset in the Danish Superliga.

Julian Green is quietly having a great start to the 2020/21 season and he was particularly strong on Sunday for Greuther Furth in a 4-1 win over Hannover. That win moved Furth into fifth place of the 2.Bundesliga standings.

Green’s 22nd minute goal opened the scoring of the rout. But it wasn’t just the goal from Green that made the difference. He was constantly on the ball in attacking positions. He played mostly on the left side of the midfield with 30 of his 50 touches coming in the attacking half of the field. He was also given a lot of freedom to cut into the middle and he took advantage to spring counter attacks up the middle.

The game was even more lopsided than the score indicated. Furth played Hannover off the field and could have scored six or seven in this. Green’s goal was a nice little close-range, sliding, finish and his raw numbers showed impressive play on both sides of the ball.

Green is certainly a player whose stock is on the rise in terms of national team concerns. Struggles with players such as Tyler Boyd and others should give him and edge. Perhaps he makes a return in November? It would be hard to argue he doesn’t deserve at least a look.

Sunderland desperately wants to get promoted out of third-tier League One this season and Lynden Gooch’s performances will go a long way towards that. The American has been with Sunderland, in various capacities, since he was 10 years old. He played for them in the Premier League and then two consecutive relegations. Now he wants to be part of the solution.

So far, he is doing just that. On Saturday, the Santa Cruz native scored in stoppage time to seal a 2-0 win over Gillingham. He now has a goal and three assists over his last five games. He now has two goals and four assists over nine games this season.

Saturday’s goal was all about effort after an exhausting 90 minutes.

These days with so much player movement, it is always admirable to see a player give so much for one club. But you hope that Gooch can get back to a higher level soon because he’s clearly better than League One (last year he had 10 goals). Preferably it should be with Sunderland, if not, perhaps he parts ways.

On Sunday, John Brooks and Wolfsburg traveled to Berlin to take on Hertha BSC. For Brooks, 27, it was a chance for him to face his former club where he developed from an early age and helped guide in a promotion to the Bundesliga.

Wolfsburg ended up walking away with a 1-1 draw against Hertha and the club now has one win and five draws to start the season. The club is finding a way to earn results but rarely win. Offense is a huge problem as it has just five goals from six games. The four goals it has conceded – all in tight games – is remarkably impressive and Brooks is playing a big role in that.

Against Hertha, Brooks was imposing defensively although his passing wasn’t as sharp as it normally is. He wasn’t at fault for Hertha’s goal – a shot from outside the 18 – and he was especially strong in a few moments of emergency defending to preserve the road draw.

Wolfsburg desperately need offense these days as its defense being asked to keep up a level that is unsustainable. It reflects well on Brooks and he’s playing well heading into the November window. It will be interesting to see if that carries over into the national team.

In one of the better “under the radar” stories from the weekend, Luca de la Torre had his best outing in his career at the club level as he earned the start for Heracles in a 4-1 win over Utrecht in the Eredivisie.

While the San Diego native did not factor into any of the goals, he was very competent in his passing while playing in and advanced position – primarily on the left wing but also with the freedom to drift into the middle.

He is certainly a player who has a lot to prove this year after struggling to play real minutes for years at Fulham. Now 23, he is entering into the prime years of his career and could possibly be a real asset to the U.S. U-23 team if Jason Kreis could secure his release.

Johnny Cardoso made his first appearance in over a month when he played the final 10 minutes for Brazilian leaders Internacional in a 1-0 loss on the road to Corinthians.

In the Swedish Allsvenskan, Romain Gall had a very strong outing for Orebro in a 1-0 win over IFK Goteborg. The French-American assisted on the game's only goal as he started and played 56 minutes.

Staying in the Allsvenskan, Aron Johannsson went the distance for Hammarby in a 1-1 draw with Hacken.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, Jesse Marsch and Red Bull Salzburg continue to have no problems in the Austrian Bundesliga in yet another win – this time a 5-0 rout over Swarovski Tirol - to keep up its perfect record.

Like James Bond cutting his way through anonymous SPECTRE henchmen, Jesse Marsch’s Red Bull Salzburg team is mowing down the Austrian Bundesliga with ease. A 5-0 win today vs Swarovski Tirol gives Marsch & Co. 6 wins in 6 Bundesliga games, 24 goals scored, 4 conceded, +20 GD

Staying in Austria, Erik Palmer-Brown played a full 90 for Austria Vienna in a 2-1 loss to Hartberg.

In the Premier League, promising young U.S. U-20 defensive midfielder/central defender Owen Otasowie is nearing his debut and went as an unused substitute for Wolves on Friday in a 2-0 win over Crystal Palace. Meanwhile,

In the English Championship, Duane Holmes played the final 29 minutes for Derby County in a 1-1 draw against AFC Bournemouth – which did not see Cameron Carter-Vickers make the matchday roster.

Staying in the Championship, Geoff Cameron played a full 90 for Queens Park Rangers in a 3-2 win over Cardiff City. U.S. U-20 forward Charlie Kelman made the bench for QPR but is still waiting for his club debut since earning a transfer from Southend United.

In League One, Indiana Vassilev earned the start and played 57 minutes for Burton Albion in a 2-1 home loss to Blackpool. Burton Albion remained in last place with the loss. Meanwhile, Marlon Fossey did not play for Shrewsburg Town in a 5-1 loss to Peterborough United.

In Serie B, Andrija Novakovich started and played 69 minutes for Frosinone in a 1-0 win over Cremonese.In Belgium, Joe Efford played the second half for Waasland Beveren in a 4-1 home loss to Gent. Ethan Horvath was an unused sub for Club Brugge in a 2-2 draw with KV Mechelen. Several Americans also saw their games canceled due to Covid – including Chris Durkin in Belgium for St. Truiden and Giuseppe Barone in Italy’s Serie B with Salernitana.
