NEXT WEEK WILL usher in November and the final international window is fast approaching. Some players, if healthy, are obvious locks. Surprisingly, however, there are several spots potentially up for grabs. Injuries, players struggling with clubs, other players playing well, and performances in recent qualifiers are all factors.

On a recent U.S. Soccer podcast, Gregg Berhalter said that he wants to pick players in form.

"I think we got the lineup wrong - not in making changes. I think of who we changed. That was a mistake," Berhalter said of the Panama loss in October. "I think there were some guys that weren't in the best form who played in the game. And we had other options that could have potentially performed better, while still resting other players."

While form is indeed important, there is also an important factor in this upcoming window in that there are only two games, and not three. There isn’t as much of a need for squad rotation as in previous games. Berhalter will be able to ride his best group of players in both games.

That doesn’t necessarily mean there is going to be a smaller roster either. It will probably be the same size and Berhalter will want to continue to keep players involved with the team.

This weekend’s games are extremely important too. The roster is expected the middle of next week, around November third. If form is going to be decisive, then this weekend should offer clues.

Here is a look at some of the bubble situations and how the roster is going to shape out. Given the injuries a few players have been dealing with and with a youthful roster, Berhalter might opt for more players. Here is how we see it ahead of the roster reveal on November 3.

We know: Matt Turner and Zack Steffen should be considered locks.

Spots open: Berhalter typically takes three goalkeepers.

Bubble Battlers: Sean Johnson, Ethan Horvath, Brad Guzan.

The final spot is almost certainly Sean Johnson. He’s been playing well for NYCFC and nothing else has changed with other players. Ethan Horvath is still not playing for Nottingham Forest.

If this was a friendly, a spot could go to a young upstart like Gabriel Slonina. But with the U-20 team back in action, there isn’t much of a need.

We Pick (3): Steffen, Turner, Johnson

We know: Antonee Robinson and Sergino Dest should be considered locks after both have played well for their clubs and with the national team this year.

Spots Open: Based on previous windows, Berhalter will likely take a total of 4 or 5 fullbacks.

Bubble Battlers: DeAndre Yedlin, Joe Scally, Sam Vines, Reggie Cannon, George Bello, Shaq Moore, Kyle Duncan, Aaron Herrera, Bryan Reynolds

The return of Sam Vines and Reggie Cannon along with the rise of Joe Scally should lead to a healthy shakeup of the fullback options. If going by form, Joe Scally has been playing well just about every week for Borussia Monchengladbach and that should merit one change October by putting him above Shaq Moore who was on the October roster.

George Bello is still a very good prospect and is only 19. He also struggled in November. In terms of having another left-footed fullback, the return of Sam Vines from his collarbone injury probably opens the door for a change. Vines played well at the Gold Cup this summer and was typically ahead of Bello.

DeAndre Yedlin should still make the November roster. He’s playing weekly for Galatasaray and is a solid veteran presence – on a team that is still thin on experience. Reggie Cannon has recently returned to action for Boavista but Yedlin is probably still ahead of Cannon – who probably won’t make this team.

We Pick (5): Robinson, Dest, Scally, Yedlin, Vines

We know: Miles Robinson and Chris Richards

Spots open: Based on previous windows, we think Berhalter will select five total central defenders

Bubble Battlers: John Brooks, Mark McKenzie, Walker Zimmerman, Tim Ream, Matt Miazga, Cameron Carter-Vickers

There are a lot of options here that Berhalter probably feels comfortable with. Several are playing well there are going to be some tough cuts. Miles Robinson is a regular and he should be considered a lock with how he has played most of 2021 (and his form for Atlanta continues to be excellent). Berhalter also really likes Chris Richards and despite his recently tough outing against Bayern Munich, is a reliable solid option for Hoffenheim.

John Brooks has long been considered one of the most talented American central defenders but he is not playing his best soccer right now. Is Brooks the type of player that is brought in if he is not the starter? I think he’ll be there, but it might not be a lock.

Walker Zimmerman was one of the winners from the October window and he also brings a good ability to win the ball in the air – he’s a little different. He’s a different player that Tim Ream but he serves that veteran/leader presence.

When it comes to form, Matt Miazga is putting himself into a good position with the start to his season at Alaves. If he plays well this weekend, he could sneak back into the team and that might put Ream and Mark McKenzie out.

We Pick (5): Richards, Robinson, Brooks, Zimmerman, Miazga.

We know: Tyler Adams, Weston McKennie, Yunus Musah, Gianluca Busio, Kellyn Acosta should all be considered locks.

Spots open: Based on previous rosters, Berhalter could select up to eight total central midfielders – as well as players listed in other positions (like Brenden Aaronson) who can play there.

Bubble battlers: Luca de la Torre, Cristian Roldan, Sebastian Lletget, Julian Green, Jackson Yueill, Tanner Tessmann, Josh Atencio, Ian Harkes, Johnny Cardoso, Paxton Pomykal

If Berhalter takes a bigger roster to this game, it’s easy a healthy chunk of central midfielders with few controversial cuts. Luca de la Torre has continued to play well, despite lackluster results for Heracles. Cristian Roldan might not start for the U.S. team but he’s a good for bringing energy off the bench. Sebastian Lletget struggled in the October window and he didn’t make the matchday squad for the Costa Rica game. But he has had a strong enough year to withstand a bad year given that his last few appearances for the Galaxy have been solid.

The next few names on the list are a bit further back, so the bubble isn’t that strong. Julian Green is out of favor at Greuther Furth. While other interesting names have emerged lately (Harkes and the young Atencio at Seattle) they are a bit further back.

We Pick (8): Adams, McKennie, Musah, Busio, Acosta, de la Torre, Roldan, Lletget

We Know: Brenden Aaronson, Tim Weah should all be considered locks.

Spots open: Based on previous rosters, Berhalter could select up to five wingers/attackers

Bubble Options: Christian Pulisic, Gio Reyna, Paul Arriola, Konrad de la Fuente, Matthew Hoppe, Jesus Ferreira, Nicholas Gioacchini

Christian Pulisic and Gio Reyna are perhaps the two best American players and when healthy, they’re locks. But neither are healthy. Pulisic seems closer to a return right now and he is back into full training. Even if he isn’t a starter come the international window, if he’s a bench option, he will go. There isn’t any evidence that Reyna will be ready, yet.

Among the bubble players, Arriola is still likely to be included now that he’s back to playing for DC United. Konrad de la Fuente probably hasn’t done enough yet to reverse his situation from being left off the last roster. He could change that with a big outing on Sunday against Clermont Foot because he needs it. The same could be said of Matthew Hoppe who hasn’t played for Mallorca since the October window.

One player who could get his first World Cup qualifying call-up is Jesus Ferreira who has had an excellent season for FC Dallas and could fill a number of different roles.

We Pick (5): Aaronson, Weah, Pulisic, Arriola, Ferreira

We Know: Ricardo Pepi should be considered a lock for this roster

Spots open: Based on previous rosters, Berhalter will take 2-3 center forwards

Bubble options: Gyasi Zardes, Josh Sargent, Daryl Dike, Jordan Pefok, Cristian Ramirez, Brian White

Aside from Ricardo Pepi, this is an open race. Gyasi Zardes is injured and probably won’t be back in time. Josh Sargent still needs to score goals.

Daryl Dike has been improving lately with Orlando and he is regaining the form he showed at Barnsley.

Pefok could also sneak back into the mix because if his ability to score on set pieces and that has been very important in games against Mexico. We have him on the outside of the bubble but he could get on the inside with a good performance in the coming days.

We Pick (2): Pepi, Dike
