This week, the USL and the USL Players Association finally put pen to paper on a new collective bargaining agreement (CBA), which will last through the 2030 season at a minimum. The agreement, as previously reported by Backheeled, extends the duration of player contracts to a standardized 12 months, increases minimum base compensation, expands healthcare requirements while decoupling them from the compensation minimum, and re-works group licensing rights on a more equitable basis.

In the short term, the new deal will meaningfully raise the standard of living for players across the USL Championship. In the longer term, it also sets the stage for USL Premier and the league’s pro-rel era. Minimum base compensation will start at $67,500 when the new first-tier league starts in 2028, more than a 50% jump from the newly established Championship minimum. In other words, participants in the Premier division will be expected to spend (and support players’ livelihoods) at a level commensurate with their newfound status.

Those questions were largely settled as April turned to May, but the formal completion of the new CBA is still a notable milestone. It’s easy to forget that the opening months of 2026 were defined by on-field protests and tangible frustration across the league. Still, we’ve come through on the other side, and Week 27 highlighted the very players that’ll benefit from the new standards.

What stood out across the matchweek, and how’d it shake up the Championship’s competitive landscape? Let’s dig in.

Trending: No change

Result: Bye

As much as I’d like to choose a hipster midfielder as my USL Championship Player of the Year, it’s very hard to deny what Rubio Rubin is doing for El Paso. Fresh off a hat trick last weekend, Rubin entered Week 27 leading the league with 17 goal contributions. He’s putting up 0.74 xG+xA on more than five box touches per 90; his ability to dominate the box and efficiently finish chances is the cherry on top of an improving Locomotive system. If you’re grading MVP candidates on their importance to a contending team, Rubin is undeniable.
