Five weeks ago, merely two points separated the sixth seed in the USL League One table from the seventh seed; 11 points created a major gulf between seventh and 13th. That’s changed in the wake of Week 26. Now, the gap between sixth-place Boise and their closest pursuer is three times bigger, while only nine points separate seventh from 13th. League One’s stratification has grown, resulting in a six-team elite with a giant bubble beneath them.

A jam-packed matchweek only muddied the waters further, but a handful of clubs stood out – for better or worse. What defined Week 26? I’m digging into all the action to find out.

The Charlotte Independence have the deepest midfield in League One, and – with respect to Union Omaha – it ain’t that close. When you cut one head off the Charlotte hydra, another grows back that, somehow, is just as technical and energetic. That self-replenishing quality is why the Independence topped the table after Friday night’s 5-0 win over AV Alta – and why they’re the best watch in the lower leagues.

In what’s now the second extended absence for Luis Alvarez, Charlotte continues to look exhilarating with and without the ball. This year, the Independence rank fourth in League One by forcing about six high turnovers per match. The intensity of their defensive approach tilts the pitch, creates semi-transitional opportunities, and lets the midfield announce itself. If you’re looking for the reason that Charlotte cleared the 50-goal mark for the year this weekend, their combination of sharp attacking patterns with high pressure is the reason why.

On Friday, Mike Jeffries’ 4-2-3-1 was all about the contributions of Jon Bakero off the right wing, Christopher Jaime at the No. 10 spot, and Jefferson Amaya in the pivot. All three have been regular starters throughout 2026, but they’ve shone especially bright while bearing a greater burden with players like Alvarez and Enzo Martinez unavailable.

Here, Charlotte’s press is in full effect. In the top frame, left winger Viggo Ortiz (dark blue, as an attacking mid) closes down on his man at the left sideline. Meanwhile, Jaime jumps high from the No. 10 spot to deny a sideways ball into a central defender. In this situation against the sideline, you’d typically expect a No. 6 to step up in support. Instead, Bakero flies over from his right wing position to cut off a centering pass.

That exceptional effort from across the attacking band was key against Antelope Valley. Alta are extremely averse to long passes and aren’t likely to switch the field; in this instance, their only escape route is directly over the top. You don’t see Amaya here, but he’s protecting against that eventuality. By staying low, the No. 6 steels Charlotte for a second ball while Bakero takes up his assumed job as an upfield marker.
