When your soccer team gets a new boss this is exactly what you want to hear. Meet Nelson Rodriguez, new General Manager of Chicago Fire.

dN

These two magnificent goals by Montreal's Didier Drogba (don't be fooled they are different goals) that happened in the 54th & 55th minute lifted Montreal over Toronto in the playoff race and gave them the 3rd seed. Drogba has been nothing short of sensational for L'Imp.

-1st goal

-2nd goal

dN

MLS Cup Playoffs Schedule

Knockout Round

Wed Oct 28

DC United v New England Revolution

Seattle Sounders v LA Galaxy

Thu Oct 29

Montreal Impact v Toronto

Portland Timbers v Sporting Kansas City

Quarterfinals

Sun Nov 1 + Sun Nov 8

New York Red Bulls v Lowest East Seed

Columbus Crew v Other East Seed

Dallas v Lowest West Seed

Vancouver Whitecaps v Other West Seed

dN

MLS average attendance for 2015: 21,574

-Forbes breaks down the attendance numbers in ways that are probably more realistic and frankly sobering. Still good, but sobering.

dN

Darlington Nagbe of the Portland Timbers has been named MLS Player Of The Week.

dN

DeAndre Yedlin is getting his shot at Sunderland. And he is playing right fullback. What happens if this works out and he settles in as a regular for the Black Cats? It means I was dead wrong about him in England. I said he would not make it. I really hope he does.

dN

The worlds most lawless major city is Karachi, Pakistan. From the Guardian.

-Population is 23 Million - tied for 3rd largest behind #1 Tokyo and #2 Jakarta

-The city averages 2700 murders per year

-In 1947 the population was 500k

dN

Britt Robson covered NBA coach and exec Flip Saunders intently starting in 1995. This is the best tribute I read to Saunder who passed away on Sunday.

dN

NASL

-2 teams battle for #1 playoff seed.

55 Ottawa Fury (+19 gd)

Sat Oct 31 at AS

53 New York Cosmos (+17 gd)

Sat Oct 31 v TBR

-2 teams battle for #4 playoff seed.

39 Tampa Bay Rowdies (-2 gd)

Sat 10/31 at NYC

38 Fort Lauderdale Strikers (+8 gd)

Sun 11/01 at JA

Minnesota is the #3 playoff seed.

With 1 game left to play Minnesota is looking to build on their league season record 52 goals.

dN

An official English criminal investigation into FIFA improprieties is finally happening. "The Serious Fraud Office has confirmed it is looking into potential money laundering offenses." From the Guardian.

dN

By the way, the list of 8 official candidates for FIFA's presidency is just a bunch of long time insider scum bags. Nothing is changing.

dN

Bundesliga club Hoffenheim is putting the clubs future in the hands of a 28 year old. From Deutsche Welle.

The Bird Is The Word
