I was just checking in on an early Saturday morning from Milwaukee, and I saw a comment from yesterday by BQ. I thought it might be good to give his remarks their own post, and let everyone else comment on it. So here we go:

The other day there was a link to a Soccer America article on Bruce Arena and you made the comment that is was nothing new. I somewhat beg to differ with you. Not that the concept is new or perhaps it's just that I have never heard Bruce Arena say it. But his comments on MLS were extremly refreshing to me. In case you did not see it this is what he had to say:

"I think there's a lot of factors that go into making club soccer better. One thing that concerns me is that MLS games are not competitive enough. Not meaningful enough. And I'd like to see a mechanism in place that requires that each and every MLS game mean something.

My particular theory on the subject is that the regular season [should be] much more important than postseason and that the MLS champion comes out of the regular season. Bonuses for teams [should be] much larger for regular-season performances.

And then for MLS Cup, the postseason, I'd let everyone be involved. It extends the playing season for all the clubs, which they need. Seed the top four teams and give them a bye.

Right now if you win two games in a row in September, you're in the playoffs, it seems. It just seems that way. So you go through a whole regular season where the games don't mean a whole lot.

I think the regular-season champion [should be] the team that goes into the CONCACAF Champions Cup, not someone that wins a couple of games in the postseason."

So how bout it? Who says that MLS should drop some games, play everyone in the league twice and not more than that. Have everyone involved with playoffs and have the games be more meaningful and a win more important finacially than it is now? We know relegation is not going to work because the club structure of U.S. soccer is to new. Not enough 1st div. clubs (USL) that have the backing or stadiums to make it work and too much money has gone into the MLS teams that they are not willing to move down. So Bruces system seems to make sense to me. Because right now there really is no incentive to play well in MLS for the majority of teams and players.
