It's Day 270 of 2017.

I'm going to the LA Galaxy v Minnesota United game on Sun Oct 15. If you want to join us in the special MNUFC section hurry up and get your tix cuz sales of them ends on Oct 1.

dN

I get more upset by the day when I see what is happening to the great people in Puerto Rico!

The clowns who run our government are literally doing everything they can to slow down all aid.

Not allowing foreign ships to dock.

Not allowing our politicians to go to PR to help.

Openly criticizing Puerto Rican politicians for the way they do business. ("You owe money to Wall Street! How do you plan to pay that back?") Who gives a shit right now!

Please give if you can: Hurricane Maria Community Recovery Fund

dN

Today 2 more Liga MX games will be simulcast in English and Spanish on 7 channels to raise money for Earthquake relief efforts in Mexico City.

TV Networks:

UniMas

ESPNEWS

ESPN Deportes

Fox Deportes

Univision Deportes

Azteca America

Schedule:

-Wed Sep 27

Leon v America at 7:00pm CT

Pachuca v Cruz Azul - 9:00pm

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

For a team that is in 19th place, with no chance at the playoffs (yeah yeah yeah, there is a mathematical chance, but get real), struggling all year to win a few games, making some horrible roster decisions, and at times playing really uninspired soccer (on a home field is a major eye sore), there is a stunning amount of positity in the air. Fans are excited. Fans are showing up to games in bigger numbers every home game. The general outlook of the whole thing is impressing other fans and pundits across the league. Impressive. Even to this majorly cynical mind.

Schedule:

-Sat Sep 30

Houston Dynamo v Minnesota United - 7:30pm CT on Fox 9+

dN

MLS

Even the worst teams in MLS have some pretty great players. By Scott French for Four Four Two.

So the Galaxy have 1 bad year and lots of people stop going to games? Seriously? Support your team? The people who always go, win or lose, and the best of the best.

Almost every game tonight has playoff consequences!

Week 30 Schedule:

(19 games)

-Wed Sep 27

Atlanta v Philadelphia

Montreal v New York City

New York RB v DC

Orlando v New England

Dallas v Colorado

Houston v LA

San Jose v Chicago

Seattle v Vancouver

-Sat Sep 30

Orlando v Dallas - 3pm CT on Univision

Toronto v New York RB

Columbus v DC

New England v Atlanta

Chicago v New York City

Houston v Minnesota

Colorado v Montreal

Kansas City v Vancouver

LA v Salt Lake

San Jose v Portland

-Sun Oct 1

Philadelphia v Seattle - 12pmCT on ESPN

dN

NWSL PLAYOFFS

A win for NC tonight secures them the #1 seed.

Battle for Seeding:

46 North Carolina (1 or 2 seed)

44 Portland (1 or 2 seed)

39 Chicago (3 or 4 seed)

37 Orlando (3 or 4 seed)

Regular Season Schedule:

-Wed Sep 27

Houston v North Carolina

-Sat Sep 30

Portland v Chicago

North Carolina v Orlando

dN

US SOCCER

Bruce Arena says we should not expect any surprises in his next roster for World Cup qualifying. By Ives Galarcep for Goal.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Weston McKennie has signed a new contract with Schalke.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE - GROUP STAGE

PSG makes their mark! And Chelsea wins on the road. Barca & Juve did exactly as expected.

Matchday 2 - Big Game Schedule:

-Wed Sep 27

PSG v Bayern

Atleti v Chelsea

Sporting v Barcelona

Juventus v Olympiakos

The Bird Is The Word
