It's Day 102 of 2017.

It looks like the Borussia Dortmund bus was purposely attacked by 3 roadside bombs, most likely pipe bombs. (A 4th did not detonate.)

The explosions broke windows on the team bus.

Player Marc Bartra suffered injuries to his arm and hand. He was taken to the hospital, and needed some sort of surgery to repair damage.

A policeman serving as a motorcycle escort was also hurt.

Dortmund was leaving a hotel and heading to their Westfalenstadion for a UEFA Champions League game against Monaco and had only just pulled out when the bombs went off.

The game was postponed until Wednesday.

Police are calling it a possible terrorist attack. 1 suspect is in custody and another is sought.

Monaco fans who made the trip to Germany for the game were encouraged to use the hashtag #bedforawayfans if they were looking for a place to sleep last night in Dortmund, and many Dortmund fans responded by taking them in. Very cool.

The game didn't go so well for Dortmund today. A little more on the game below.

dN

Best @MLS game I have ever been too.@ChicagoFire v @NERevolution

Don't tell me Bridgeview can't be electric.#cf97https://t.co/80KYMbLW5m

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) April 12, 2017

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Impressive 1st Leg win at home for Juventus on Tuesday.

It sure seemed like the Dortmund player wanted to be anywhere but out on that field today. Which contributed to a great win and 3 huge road goals for Monaco.

Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Tue Apr 11

Juventus 3-0 Barcelona

-Wed Apr 12

Dortmund 1-3 Monaco

Bayern v Real Madrid

Atletico v Leicester

dN

US OPEN CUP

The draw for the 2017 US Open Cup Round 1 games and Round 2 match-ups happened today.

Minnesota United and the other MLS teams will join in Round 4.

dN

MLS

Clint Dempsey goes into some details about his heart condition:

Sat down w/ @SoundersFC Clint Dempsey today. He opened up about heart condition during 2016 season with details not previously released pic.twitter.com/i8PnSoke8T

— Michelle Ludtka (@MichelleLudtka) April 12, 2017

The philosophy behind why Dallas coach Oscar Pareja made the change in goalkeeper last weekend, which in many ways got them the win. By Jon Arnold for the Dallas Morning News.

Philly Union has looked so poor this Spring that you might think their playoff inclusion last season was a fluke rather than an upturn. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

dN

Funny Business: du Nord Music Mix Vol 119 (download + extract)

dN

“This monkey is tied, now let’s skin it!” Was Bo Diddley a Buddha? By Stephen Sama for the New York Times.

dN

USMNT

Which USA players are on the rise and fall. By Doug McIntyre for ESPNFC.

No proper USA fan will ever let this one go - the non-call of the Torsten Frings handball on the goal line in World Cup 2002. By Grant Wahl for Sports Illustrated.

dN

The World Cup hosting bid by USA, Mexico and Canada will provide a huge boost to Canadian soccer if the tournament is awarded to the North American trio. By Ridge Mahoney for Soccer America.

Really good interview with Santos Laguna team president Alejandro Irarragorri giving his thoughts on the World Cup big, Liga MX and MLS. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

The Bird Is The Word
