It's Day 334 of 2016.

pic.twitter.com/uvxe0jm1kA

— Chapecoense (@ChapecoenseReal) November 29, 2016

In devastating news, Brazilian team Chapecoense from Chapeco, Santa Catarina, Brazil was on their way to Medellin, Colombia for the 1st Leg of the Copa Sudamericana Final against Atletico Nacional when their air plane crashed in the mountain Cerro Gordo.

76 people are dead. Rest In Power.

3 players, Alan Ruschel, Jackson Follman and Neto survived, along with a journalist, a flight attendant and a flight crew member.

The team flew commercial airlines from Sao Paulo to Santa Cruz, Bolivia where they changed to a private charter, which is the plane that crashed.

The best coverage is from Brazilian newspaper O Globo. (in Portuguese)

Damn, this is some really sad news!

In a wonderful gesture the director of Atletico Nacional has asked CONMEBOL to award the Sudamericana championship to Chapecoense.

dN

Minnesota United introduces new head coach Adrian Heath:

Now everyone say hello to Adrian Heath! #MNUFC pic.twitter.com/CwlPypiuZr

— Minnesota United FC (@MNUFC) November 29, 2016

Here is the story on the Heath hiring:

Jeff Reuter of Fifty Five One

Andy Greder of Pioneer Press

David LaVaque of Star Tribune

An interview with Heath about his new job and his ambitions. By Paul Tenorio of Four Four Two.

dN

Bruce Arena laid out his plan for the USMNT:

Sam Borden of the New York Times

Steven Goff of the Washington Post

Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC

Someone who for a short time shined as a USA international player was John O'Brien. What does he think of the re-hiring of Bruce Arena? By Miguel Delaney of ESPNFC.

dN

Yesterday people were talking about one of Jurgen Klinsmann's biggest accomplishments was getting the team out of the Group Of Death at the 2014 World Cup. So I started thinking about this Group Of Death concept. It is always tagged the day the draw is made. But I realized, like the Golden Ball this tag should be applied post-tournament when the facts are in, not pre-tournament when its just pure speculation. The Group Of Death as we know it rarely lives up to its billing.

dN

18 year old American Josh Perez made his debut for Fiorentina yesterday, coming on as a sub in the 75th minute. He is a midfielder. They lost 4-2 at Inter.

Another American, 21 year old forward Jack McBean, formerly of the LA Galaxy, made his debut at Coventry City (English League One, third division) on Saturday. He also came on as a 75th minute sub. They lost 1-2 v MK Dons.

dN

MLS Playoffs - Semifinals Schedule:

2nd Leg

-Sun Nov 27

Colorado Rapids 0-1 Seattle Sounders

-Wed Nov 30

Toronto v Montreal (2-3) - 6:00pm CT on FS1

If Toronto wins then they host the Final. If Montreal wins the Final is played in Seattle.

Come on Montreal!

dN

Toronto FC is focused on winning Wednesday night and will think about hosting MLS Cup after that. By Kurt Larson of the Toronto Sun.

dN

The Impact are prepared for hostility! By Bill Beacon of the Canadian Press. Via the Gazette.

dN

Sporting Kansas City has signed head coach Peter Vermes to a new contract.

dN

USWNT have been knocked out of the Women's U20 World Cup.

USWNT U20 lost 1-2 to North Korea in the Semifinals in Added Extra Time.

USA came from behind to tie the game in the dying seconds of regular time only to see N Korea score immediately off the AET kickoff.

Semifinals Results:

-Tue Nov 29

USA 1-2 North Korea

Japan 1-2 France

Final:

-Sat Dec 3

North Korea v France

dN

Coming up this weekend in Europe:

-Sat Dec 3

Manchester City v Chelsea

Barcelona v Real Madrid

-Sun Dec 4

Lazio v Roma

The Bird Is The Word
