Guadalajara coach Chepo De la Torre on his teams match with DC United tonight: "This game is not a measuring stick. It's life or death. Win or you're out. I can't underestimate anything."

CONCACAF Champions Cup Semifinal second leg matches are this week!

Tuesday-

Guadalajara v DC United - live at 8:30pm central on Fox Soccer Channel

Previews:

-Steven Goff of the Washington Post

-John Haydon of the Washington Times

-Two previews from LA Soccer News - Joel Aceves - and - Luis Bueno

-Then Bueno talks to Panchito Mendoza of Chivas USA about the two CCC matchups.

-Jeff Carlisle of Soccernet has previews of both CCC matches.

-Preview of both matches from FIFA.com

Thursday-

Pachuca v Houston - live at 8:30pm central on Fox Soccer Channel

The website Fulham USA had the chance to sit down and talk with former USA striker and current TV commentator Eric Wynalda last week in Tampa Florida. Read on if you dare.

Blanco arrived in Chicago yesterday and will be officially introduced by the team today. As big as this signing is for the Fire, the story is still buried in that cities newspapers. Sad. Many others chime in on the topic as well:

-Luis Arroyave of the Tribune.

-More from Arroyave at his Red Card blog.

-Len Ziehm of the Sun Times.

-Chicago Daily Southtown.

-Bernardo Fallas of the Houston Chronicle talks to Dynamo players and coaches about the arrival of Blanco.

-Paul Gardner of the New York Sun is always barking for more Latin influence on the American game. What does he make of the Blanco signing?

-Bill Urban of the US Players Assoc says the use of the Designated Player Rule for a guy like Blanco is a failure of the rule.

-Luis Bueno at Sports Illustrated says the move may be ill conceived.

Steven Goff at the Washington Post has a feature on DCU's new midfielder Fred2.

LA Galaxy forward Alan Gordon has suffered a stress fracture in his left foot and will be out of action for at least 2 months.

The English newspaper The Northern Echo is the latest to link Middlesbrough midfielder Gaizka Mendieta with MLS. This time it's with LA.

Former New England rookie Kyle Brown gets a second shot at MLS with Salt Lake. From the Deseret Morning News.

Luis Bueno of LA Soccer News with the story of the last remaining original Chivas USA player imported from Guadalajara - the excellent Panchito Mendoza.

Metrofanatic looks at the 9 times players have left New York and returned to the club. How did that work for them? Will it work out for Cleetus?

Ives Galarcep at the North Jersey Herald says the Clint Mathis deal makes sense for New York.

Frank Giase at the Newark Star Ledger talks to MLS CBW Don Garber who says the New York Red Bulls are getting it together for real this time, slowly but surely.

The Salt Lake Tribune looks at the importance, to Real Salt Lake, of midfielder Mehdi Ballouchy.

Jeff Bradley at MLSnet has his newest column looking at how teams fixed their previous years problems in this past offseason. First XL: All The Right Moves

James Edwards of the Deseret Morning News with a MLS Eastern Conference preview.

You would think that nearly every MLS team would knock down doors to sign long time USA star goalkeeper Kasey Keller, but they are NOT. Steve Davis of Soccernet with the weird story. At least Colorado, Salt Lake & Columbus should be killing to get this guy. Everyone is saying Keller wants too much money, but if you don't think this guys name will sell tickets then yer nuts. I would argue that outside of Landon Donovan he is the most popular player on the USA team.

Forward Byron Alvarez has left Portland after 4 seasons to sign with Charleston, both in the USL First Division.

Let's check in with our favorite Americans in Europe and see how their recent matches went:

-Tim Howard - Everton - started in goal for a rare Monday game, and gave up a late goal settling for a 1-1 draw at Aston Villa. Everton are in 7th place, one spot out of the UEFA Cup.

Champions League quarterfinals - Matchday 9 starts today!

Tuesday-

Milan v Bayern Munich - Live at 1:30 central on Setanta & delayed at 4:00 central on ESPN Classic

PSV v Liverpool - Live at 1:30 central on ESPN2

Wednesday-

Roma v Manchester United - Live at 1:30 central on ESPN2

Chelsea v Valencia - Live at 1:30 central on Setanta & delayed at 4:00 central on ESPN Classic

-Matchday 10 on April 10 & 11.

Copa Libertadores - here are the week's matches:

Apr 03

Nacional - Emelec

Colo Colo - LDU Quito

El Nacional - Banfield

Apr 04

Cienciano - Boca Juniors

Sao Paulo - Necaxa

Maracaibo - Flamengo

Apr 05

Caracas - River Plate

Defensor Sporting - Santos

Deportivo Pasto - Gimnasia

-With 2 rounds of the group stage still to be played both Santos & Flamengo have already qualified for the knock out stages.

David Beckham is back training with Real Madrid after suffering a sprained knee ligament a month ago.

European matches like the Champions League are never easy for traveling fans, and the behavior of their clubs and players doesn't make it any easier. So says Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune.
