STARTERS

MLS scores a huge one and signs Landon Donovan to a new 4 year contract on the LA Galaxy, taking him through the 2013 season. GM/Coach Bruce Arena says a loan deal to Everton is not done, but is likely. And any January loan deal would last 10 weeks only. Finally, Arena stated that LD is NOT for sale.

dN

I got an email from my Friend In Futbol La Velle this morning simply asking, "DMB! Is it a revival?" Wow. I'll say! DaMarcus Beasley, a player I have loved for years and years has lit up Rangers in the past 2 weeks, culminating in a glorious goal last night as the beat Dundee United. See it here:

So is Run DMB back, or is he on sale in the front window of the shopping mall?

-Here is a post game quote from his manager Walter Smith: "DaMarcus Beasley played like that for us when he came at first before he got his bad injury. After he came back, he was hampered with hamstring injuries."

dN

It will be Estudiantes v Barcelona in the Club World Cup title game on Saturday.

dN

Soccer By Ives has been named the US Soccer Blog of the Year, for the 2nd time in a row. Huge congrats to my friend Ives!

-And thanks to everyone who voted for du Nord and wrote all those nice things about the blog. It means a lot to me to even be included on the ballot.

MLS COACHES MERRY-GO-ROUND

Seeing as Caleb Porter has now signed a 5 year contract extension at Akron, taking him out of the running for the head coaches job at DC United, Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America brings us up to date on that search, and the other 2 teams (Chicago & New York) and their plans for hiring a new head coach.

dN

Mahoney of also reports that Jesse Marsch and Tom Soehn are the 2 main candidates to become the new Chicago Fire head coach. Soehn? Really? And Marsch? Really? I love Jesse, but a guy with no coaching experience at all is never good news.

USL-1/NASL CLUSTERFUCK

Paul James of the Toronto Globe & Mail looks at the Vancouver Whitecaps club building plans for the future.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Ravi Ubha of ESPN Soccernet reviews our players across the European continent, focusing on 3 starting goalkeepers in England - Friedel, Hahnemann & Howard.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premiership

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance and grabbed another clean sheet winning 0-2 at Sunderland.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - Tue Dec 15 at Manchester United

ENGLAND - Johnstone's Paint Trophy Northern Section Semifinal:

Mike Grella - Leeds - started and played 60 miutes as they beat Accrington Stanley at home 2-0.

SCOTLAND - Premiership

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - Started and went 83 minutes, scoring the first goal and setting up the third as they beat Dundee United 0-3 on the road!

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Stade Rennes - Wed Dec 16 at Monaco

UEFA - Europa League

Bryan Arguez - Hertha Berlin - Wed Dec 16 v Sporting

Dominic Cervi - Celtic - Thu Dec 17 at Rapid Wien

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Wed Dec 16 at Basel

Greg Garza - Sporting - Wed Dec 16 at Hertha Berlin

Tim Howard - Everton - Thu Dec 17 v BATE

Jared Jeffrey - Club Brugge - Wed Dec 16 v Toulouse

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Wed Dec 16 at Basel

Matt Luzunaris - Rapid Wien - Thu Dec 17 v Celtic

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Matchday 6 will be played on Wed Dec 16 & Thu Dec 17. This is the last round of the Group Stage.

dN

Standings

dN

13 teams - Ajax, Sporting, Hamburg, Hapoel Tel Aviv, Galatasaray, Fenerbahce, Salzburg, Benfica, Everton, Shakhtar, Werder Bremen, Athletic Bilbao & PSV - have advanced tot he knock out rounds already.

The other 11 spots will be filled this week.

And 8 teams from the Champions League - Juventus, Wolfsburg, Marseille, Atletico Madrid, Liverpool, Rubin Kazan, Unirea Urziceni & Standard Liege - will drop down to fill out the 32 team field.

dN

The draw is to be held on Fri Dec 18.

CLUB WORLD CUP

The tournament is being played in Abu Dhabi, and begins on Wednesday.

-Wed Dec 9 - Match 1

Al Ahli FC 0-2 Auckland City FC - Auc goals by Adam Dickinson & Chad Coombes.

-Fri Dec 11 - Match 2

TP Mazembe 1-2 Pohang Steelers FC - TPM goal by Mbenza Bedi. PS goals both by Denilson (no, not that one).

Sat Dec 12 - Match 3

Auckland City FC 0-3 Atlante FC - Atl goals by Daniel Arreola, Christian Bermudez & Lucas Silva.

-Tue Dec 15 - Semifinal

Pohang Steelers FC v Estudiantes de La Plata

-Wed Dec 16 - Semifinal

Atlante FC 1-3 FC Barcelona - Atl goal by Guillermo Rojas. Bar goals by Sergio Busquets, Lionel Messi & Pedro.

-Sat Dec 19 - Final

Barcelona v Estudiantes

ENDERS

Git yer hands on an officially licensed Minnesota Kicks or Tampa Bay Rowdies t-shirts! And yes, I know the guy pictured wearing the shirts. He's the owner! Go Joe Go! (Thanks to BQ for the heads up.)
