STARTERS

100 Days Till The World Cup!!!!!

dN

Jermaine Jones is still injured, but he is in Amsterdam this week meeting up with his new Team USA friends. Could this be a sign that if he is healthy then he will be on the USA World Cup roster. I sure hope so! Hooray German beer!

dN

For the record - I love the USA second shirt that got introduced last week. The throwback idea to 1950 with the sash is fantastic. I would think the first shirt will be a simple white. But let's hope it has some flair too. (Another sash?)

dN

Do you want to know how little it can mean to be undefeated? Bayer Leverkusen has not lost this season in the German Bundesliga, yet a tie last weekend dropped them out of first place.

TEAM USA

Friendly Match & Score:

-Wed Mar 3

Netherlands v USA - 1:30 Central on ESPN2

Venue: Ajax Arena - Amsterdam

dN

Official Team Blog

-Q & A with Steve Cherundolo. Lots of good stuff here.

-Q & A with Jay DeMerit.

-Q & A with Maurice Edu.

dN

US Soccer with video interviews before the important match. Players and coach alike spew cliches.

dN

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 talks to Maurice Edu and Jonathan Bornstein.

dN

US Soccer gives us tons of great pre-game notes for the match.

dN

Jen Chang of ESPN Soccernet previews the match on Wednesday.

dN

A special red ball will be used in this game to raise awareness for AIDS/HIV in Africa.

dN

Former Czech international and Chicago Fire player Lubos Kubik has been hired as a new assistant coach.

STUART HOLDEN

After a start in the FA Cup last week, Holden got his Premier League debut for Bolton last weekend and did not disappoint. As a matter of fact nearly the entire match report in the Guardian is about him, with multiple raves from his coach! Thanks to Bart for this one.

dN

Unfortunately Marcus Hahnemann was on the other end of the loss, and he appears to be the only bright spot on his Wolverhampton team these days. They look doomed.

dN

And from the official Bolton website - the coach speaks - and - Holden speaks.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to originally extend it until Feb 12, and now a further 13 days to Feb 25.

dN

And now that Feb 25 has come and gone with no new deal being finished, we enter the Twilight Zone.

dN

Rob Harris of the Associated Press talks to MLS Commish Don Garber about the failure to reach an agreement.

-The Don says the owners WILL NOT lock out the players.

dN

Richard Snowden at Soccer 365 plays Doctor and tries to cure the negotiation impasse blues.

30 of 32 WORLD CUP FINALISTS IN FRIENDLY MATCHES THIS WEEK

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Mar 3

Algeria v Serbia

Argentina at Germany

Australia v Indonesia

Brazil v Ireland in London, England

Cameroon v Italy in Monte Carlo, Monaco

Cote d'Ivoire v South Korea in London, England

Denmark at Austria

England v Egypt

France v Spain

Germany v Argentina

Ghana at Bosnia-Herzegovina

Greece v Senegal

Honduras at Turkey

Italy v Cameroon in Monte Carlo, Monaco

Japan v Bahrain

Mexico v New Zealand in Pasadena, California, USA

Netherlands v USA

New Zealand v Mexico in Pasadena, California, USA

Nigeria v Congo DR

Portugal v China

Serbia at Algeria

Slovakia v Norway

Slovenia v Qatar

South Africa v Namibia

South Korea v Cote d'Ivoire in London, England

Spain at France

Switzerland v Uruguay

Uruguay at Switzerland

USA at Netherlands

-Sat Mar 6

North Korea at Venezuela

dN

Chile were set to play Costa Rica, but the giant earthquake in Chile made this one impossible.

dN

Paraguay is the other team not playing this week.

dN

Viewing in America:

Greece vs Senegal - 9:00am Central on ESPN360.com

Hungary vs Russia - 12:30pm Central on ESPN360.com

Netherlands v USA - 1:30 Central on ESPN2

Germany vs Argentina - 1:30pm Central on GolTV

Poland vs Bulgaria - 1:30pm Central on ESPN360.com

Belgium vs Croatia - 1:45pm Central on ESPN360.com

France vs Spain - 2:00pm Central on ESPN360.com

Portugal vs China - 2:45pm Central on ESPN360.com

SALVADOR CABANAS

The AP reports that 6 employees of the bar where Cabanas was shot have been charged with aiding the suspected shooter, who has still not been caught. Via Soccernet

QUOTE OF THE DAY

Maurice Edu on the World Cup draw: "Everyone back in Scotland is excited and they're wishing me well. They keep telling me to score a goal against England and to please, please beat England." See the full interview in the Team USA section above.

STORY OF THE DAY

Over the past several weeks England fullback Wayne Bridge has been publicly humiliated by the tale of his former friend John Terry having an affair with Bridge's former girlfriend and mother of his son. Terry has been smugly silent on the whole affair, and last Thursday Bridge made a public statement saying that the situation has made it impossible to continue on as a member of the English national team and he would not accept a call up to the World Cup squad. To make it worse, last Saturday Bridge's club team Manchester City had to travel to London to face Terry's Chelsea team in the weekends biggest match up. During the pregame handshakes though Bridge got a little payback, as the whole country tuned in to watch him snub Terry and shake hands with every other member of Chelsea except the shunned. I have no idea why I took so much glee in this event but I really did. I feel quite badly for Bridge, and now John Terry's bobo's are badmouthing Bridge about the entire event. What a bunch of punk-ass losers. Here is video of the snubbery.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

The Edward Jones Dome in St Louis will host the very interesting looking Players For Peace game on Aug 7. The charity match will feature an all star teams from South America v The Rest of the World. Brazilian legend Carlos Alberto Torres, who served as captain of Brazil’s 1970 Mexico World Cup championship team, will coach the South American team, while Eric Wynalda (of all people) will coach The Rest of the World team!

WHY NOT!

I stumbled upon a blog post at Salsa Caliente about the "The Plight of the Female Sports Fan". I think this is worth reading, especially by most of us guys. This is a view we seldom have on the world of sports fandom.

MLS NEWS

Kansas City Wizards local TV broadcasts will feature the color commentary of former player Sasha Victorine. Did I miss his retirement announcement?

dN

Chivas USA has now officially signed midfielder Osael Romero to a loan deal from Vista Hermosa in his native El Salvador.

dN

San Jose has officially signed Argentine midfielder Javier Robles from Velez Sarsfield.

MLS RUMORS

Soccer 365 with words on Alvaro Saborio, Craig Rocastle, Sunil Chhetri, Anthony Obodai, Paul Dickov and Tommaso Vailatti, plus many other players around the world.

USSF DIVISION 2

Miami FC will not play in Miami this upcoming season. They have decided to move north to Fort Lauderdale and play at the fabled Lockhart Stadium.

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

The Long Beach Post tells us: It's time to start hating England.

-I already do my man, I already do! (Not the country the team.)

USA U17 TEAM

In case you missed this last week, the U17's played Mexico right before the USA took on El Salvador last week in Tampa, with the USA coming up golden as 4-1 winners. The goals were scored by Kellen Gulley(2), Alejandro Guido & Marc Pelos.
