It's Day 11 of 2016.

RIP David Bowie. The greatest pop music star ever!

-His latest single is Lazarus, was released last Thursday.

-The first line of the song is "Look up here, I'm in heaven."

dN

The first big impact David Bowie made on me was his 1979 appearance on Saturday Night Live. It wasn't really the music, which was kinda normal, but the feeling of sheer weirdness the performance gave to this small town kid - Klaus Nomi, wooden clothing, men in dresses, pink poodle, puppet body! Glorious.

dN

Very sorry and sad to say it's true. I'll be offline for a while. Love to all. pic.twitter.com/Kh2fq3tf9m

— Duncan Jones (@ManMadeMoon) January 11, 2016

dN

New Minnesota United coach Carl Craig gives us some insight on what he wants from his team. By Jon Marthaler of the Star Tribune.

dN

Minnesota United Reserves are moving from NPSL to the Premier League of America for 2016.

-Never heard of this league. 2015 was its first year, and it was called the Great Lakes Premier League last season.

-Other teams in the league: Aurora Borealis - Aurora IL, Aris - La Crosse WI, Milwaukee Bavarians - Glendale WI, Carpathia - Sterling Heights MI, Croation Eagles - Franklin WI, Madison 56ers - Madison WI, Oakland County - Rochester MI, Ole - Wyoming MI, RWB Adria - Chicago IL, Toledo United - Maumee OH

dN

Peter Wilt has begun "pursuit of a NASL team in Chicago."

-Wilt is leaving Indy Eleven, but for now continues on as a GM consultant. A replacement as team president has been hired, and its no one any of us have ever heard of.

dN

USA January camp kicks off today in Southern California and 3 more players have been added to the roster: defenders Steve Birnbaum and Brandon Vincent, and midfielder Perry Kitchen.

-Who is Brandon Vincent? I guess he is another college kid from Stanford.

-Two San Jose players, Fatai Alashe and Marc Pelosi were dropped from the roster due to injuries.

-Centerback Matt Hedges of Dallas has to be wondering who he offended.

dN

Looks like Sunderland found DeAndre Yedlin. He played the entire game at right fullback in the FA Cup - a 3-1 loss at Arsenal.

-Cody Cropper played in the FA Cup too, going 90 in goal for MK Dons, as they tied Northampton 2-2 on the road.

dN

Omar Gonzalez made his Liga MX debut for Pachuca, a 1-1 tie at Tijuana. He had a solid game, clearing a ball from in front of an empty net when the keeper was out, and flicking a a corner kick header to the back post where a teammate finished!

-Miguel Ibarra was on the bench for Leon but did not play in a 2-0 win over Santos Laguna.

-Ventura Alvarado (America), Paul Arriola (Tijuana), Jonny Bornstein (Querataro), Edgar Castillo (Monterrey), Joe Corona (Dorados), Jorge Villafana (Santos Laguna) and Will Yarbrough (Leon) all played.

-Here are the rest of the scores from the opening weekend of the Liga MX Clausura:

Queretaro 1-3 Atlas

America 0-0 Puebla

Monterrey 1-0 Pumas

Morelia 2-2 Cruz Azul

Chiapas 1-0 Dorados

Toluca 1-0 Tigres

Guadalajara 2-2 Veracruz

dN

FIFA Awards:

Carli Lloyd - Womens Player Of The Year

Jill Ellis - Womens Coach Of The Year

Lionel Messi - Mens Player Of The Year

Luis Enrique - Mens Coach Of The Year

No one was more deserving of a Player Of The Year award than Carli Lloyd. What she did at the World Cup last summer was nothing short of incredible.

-Here is the official voting for the Mens player of the year - each FIFA country gets 3 votes - coach, captain and media.

-Jurgen Klinsmann: 1)Lionel Messi 2) Neymar Da Silva Santos Junior 3) Cristiano Ronaldo

-Michael Bradley: 1) Lionel Messi 2) Cristiano Ronaldo 3) Luis Suarez

-Paul Kennedy: 1) Lionel Messi 2) Cristiano Ronaldo 3) Neymar Da Silva Santos Junior

dN

I know some of you like this crap (hehehehehe) - FA Cup: talking points from the third round. By the Guardian.

dN

Haiti and Panama became the last two teams to qualify for the Copa America Centenario.

-Haiti knocked off Trinidad & Tobago, which makes the USA weak effort and tie game at T+T in November look even worse.

-Panama beat Cuba.

-Official Seeding of the 16 teams:

#1 seeds: USA (32), Mexico (22), Argentina (2) and Brazil (6).

05 Chile (5)

06 Colombia (8)

07 Uruguay (11)

08 Ecuador (13)

09 Costa Rica (37)

10 Paraguay (46)

11 Peru (47)

12 Jamaica (54)

13 Panama (64)

14 Bolivia (68)

15 Haiti (77)

16 Venezuela (83)

dN

The president of the University of Alabama earned $565,000 last year.

The football team strength and conditioning coach of the University of Alabama earned $517,045 last year.

dN

A Fighter’s Hour of Need - The 60 minutes after the boxing match in 2013 at Madison Square Garden were crucial for Magomed Abdusalamov's life. What happened? By Dan Barry of the New York Times.

The Bird Is The Word
