It's Day 307 of 2016.

Dia de los Muertos pic.twitter.com/Xme7EznB3P

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) November 2, 2016

dN

9 days to USA v Mexico in CONCACAF World Cup qualifying. Kickoff has been set for 6:45pm CT on FS1.

dN

Which USMNT players are in great form and poor form as we head toward the Mexico + Costa Rica showdowns? By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

Copa MX - Tonight - Apertura Final:

-Wed Nov 2

Queretaro v Guadalajara - 7:50pm CT on Univision Deportes

dN

The offseason will be busy for the Carolina RailHawks. A review of 2016. By Neil Morris of WRAL Sports Fan.

dN

Today I voted for Jimmy Maurer of New York Cosmos as NASL Player Of The Month for October. The other day in a Tweet I spelled his name Jummy. Thats not half bad.

dN

Damien Lowe who had been on loan to Minnesota United from Seattle Sounders in 2016 is no longer under a special MLS contract that would allow Seattle to not have to protect him in the upcoming expansion draft. He is now available for choosing by Minn and Atl unless Seattle uses 1 of their 11 protected spots on him.

dN

Chicharito is the ultimate example of a clinician in front of goal. That is a rare player. By Marcus Christenson of the Guardian.

dN

Scrap: du Nord Music Mix Vol 103 (download + extract)

dN

John Wolyniec of New York Red Bulls II named USL Coach Of The Year.

dN

In the Toronto v New York City Leg 1 match Sunday there were two rough confrontations between Armando Cooper and David Villa. In the 2nd incident Villa kicked Cooper across the back of the legs as they fell to the ground. The MLS Disciplinary Committee chose NOT to suspend Villa for Leg 2. But all season long this was exactly the type of offense they punished with a 1 game suspensions. Its been a near unanimous cry that MLS got this decision wrong. The ESPN Staff discuss the issue.

dN

Costa Rica has announced their roster for 2 World Cup qualifiers:

Matchday 1

-Fri Nov 11

Trinidad + Tobago v Costa Rica

Matchday 2

-Tue Nov 15

Costa Rica v USA

G:

Esteban Alvarado - Trabzonspor

Keylor Navas - Real Madrid

Patrick Pemberton - Alajuelense

D:

Johnny Acosta - Herediano

Francesco Calvo - Saprissa

Cristian Gamboa - Celtic

Ronald Matarrita - New York City

Bryan Oviedo - Everton

Pablo Salazar - Herediano

Jose Salvatierra - Alajuelense

Michael Umana - Alajuelense

Kendall Waston - Vancouver Whitecaps

M:

Randall Azofeifa - Herediano

Cristian Bolanos - Vancouver Whitecaps

Celso Borges - Deportivo la Coruna

David Guzman - Saprissa

Yeltsin Tejeda - Lausanne

Johan Venegas - Montreal Impact

Rodney Wallace - Sport Recife

F:

Joel Campbell - Sporting CP

Ariel Rodriguez - Bangkok Glass

Bryan Ruiz - Sporting CP

Marco Urena - Brondby

dN

Like magic:

This isn't football. This is art. Astounding. pic.twitter.com/MYh2yar3xn

— MÖ (@OzilStatsTalk) November 1, 2016

dN

UEFA Champions League - Group Stage - Big Teams - Matchday 4:

On Tuesday 4 teams advanced to the knock out rounds: Arsenal (A), Atletico Madrid (D), Bayern Munich (D) and PSG (A).

Man City got a little revenge on Barcelona for the ass kicking they got on the road last month.

Dortmund, Juventus and Real Madrid all can advance with a win on Wednesday.

-Tue Nov 1

Manchester City 3-1 Barcelona

Atletico Madrid 2-1 Rostov

PSV 1-2 Bayern

Ludogorets 2-3 Arsenal

Basel 1-2 PSG

-Wed Nov 2

Dortmund v Sporting CP

Legia v Real Madrid

Juventus v Lyon

The Americans in UCL:

Fabian Johnson + Gladbach - Tue: went the full 90 as they tied 1-1 v Celtic.

Christian Pulisic + Dortmund - Wed v Sporting

The Bird Is The Word
