STARTERS

The Derby du Nord between Lens & Lille this past weekend ended in a 1-1 draw.

dN

Portsmouth became the first team in Premiership history to open the season with 6 straight defeats. Oof.

USL FIRST DIVISION PLAYOFFS

The regular season ended on Sunday, with Portland claiming the Commissioner’s Cup. Now the important games begin!

dN

Portland being the #1 seed gets a buy in the first round. Then #'s 2-7 match up high to low and go at it in the Quarterfinals.

dN

All the games can be seen at USLlive.com.

dN

Quarterfinal Round Playoffs - 1st Leg

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Sep 24

Vancouver #7 vCarolina #2

Rochester #6 v Puerto Rico #3

Montreal #5 v Charleston #4

-Sun Sep 27

Carolina v Vancouver

Puerto Rico v Rochester

Charleston v Montreal - 6pm on FSC

MLS

Week 27

Matches & Scores

-Fri Sep 18

New York Red Bulls 1-1 New England Revolution - NYRB goal by John Wolyniec. NER goal by Sainey Nyassi.

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

Attendance: 10,979

San Jose Earthquakes 1-1 Colorado Rapids - SJE goal by Ryan Johnson. CR goal by Conor Casey(PK).

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 10,525

-Sat Sep 19

Seattle Sounders FC 0-0 Chivas USA

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 32,719

Kansas City Wizards 3-2 FC Dallas - KCW goals by Santiago Hirsig, Josh Wolff & Jimmy Conrad. FCD goals by Dax McCarty & Jeff Cunningham.

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Attendance: 10,385

Houston Dynamo 3-2 Real Salt Lake - HD goals by Brian Ching, Geoff Cameron & Brad Davis. RSL goals by Kyle Beckerman & Yura Movsisyan.

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Attendance: 18,133

Los Angeles Galaxy 2-0 Toronto FC - LAG goals by David Beckman & Edson Buddle.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 18,619

-Sun Sep 20

Chicago Fire 2-2 Columbus Crew - CF goals both by Peter Lowry. CC goals both by Guillermo Barros Schelotto(second via PK).

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 16,549

dN

EJECTIONS:

Marcelo Saragosa - Chivas USA - Red Card

Jamison Olave - Real Salt Lake - Red Card

Brian Ching - Houston Dynamo - Red Card

dN

Stuff From The Weekend:

-Obviously the big question after this past weekends games is: Who is Peter Lowry? Not much to say really, but he is a 2nd year midfielder who did not see any field time in his first year, but has played in 7 games this year and scored 3 goals. He played this weekend in place of the injured John Thorrington.

-San Jose lost 2 points on a Penalty Kick given against them in the dying seconds of their game against Colorado on Friday night. I honestly could not see the foul. I saw two guys tangle up and go down - one from each team. Did SJ get hosed? Maybe one of you saw something I didn't.

-Los Angeles had one of their lowest attendances ever at Home Depot Center! While Seattle, San Jose & Kansas City all had sell outs.

-Bernardo Fallas of the Houston Chronicle says the reason the Dynamo shipped out forward Kei Kamara was because they attempted to sign forward Joseph Ngwenya at the last moment. But the deal did not work out.

-Julian de Guzman made his TFC debut.

-Jeff Cunningham got career goal #117, still 2nd all time, but now just 12 back from Jaime Moreno at 129.

-Sean Franklin, last seasons Rookie of the Year, finally returned to the Los Angeles Galaxy line up at right fullback after recovering from knee surgery.

-A crazy weekend for Jimmy Conrad who uncharacteristically made 2 huge blunders that led directly to Dallas goals, but then sneaks to the back post to head home the game winner for Kansas City in the 80th minute!

-Heath Pearce came on as a sub in the 62nd minute for his Dallas debut. He replaced left midfielder Dave Van Den Bergh.

-Claudio Suarez made his return to the Chivas USA line up coming on as a late game sub.

-Is Fredy Montero acting again??? Yes Marcelo Saragosa flattened him with a ugly high boot that drew a deserving Red Card, but if you watch Montero on the ground he is holding his face. Buuuuuuuut he didn't get touched in the face. The cleats got him on the shoulder and neck. This goes right back to his possible fake job from the US Open Cup final when DC keeper Josh Wicks melted down and jumped on Montero like a giant moron, but later that week Montero showed reporters his "wounds" from the incident - big scrapes on his right leg. EXCEPT Wicks didn't touch his right leg. Fredy, Fredy, Fredy, what are you doing buddy. Don't cry wolf too often, or you might regret it when something really does happen, and no one believes you.

dN

Kristian Dyer at ESPN Soccernet on Richie Williams and the quality he has drawn out of the hideous Red Bulls since taking over as head coach a month ago. They were on course to be the worst team in league history, but they have 7 points in 4 games with Williams. Will he be their man for next season??

-Dyer says Carlos Queiroz is on the top of the Red Bulls list for their new coach.

MLS TOP GOAL SCORERS

14 Conor Casey - Colorado

13 Jeff Cunningham - Dallas

12 Guillermo Barros Schelotto - Columbus

11 Fredy Montero - Seattle

10 Landon Donovan - Los Angeles

10 Dwayne De Rosario - Toronto

10 Robbie Findley - Real Salt Lake

10 Josh Wolff - Kansas City

MLS EXHIBITION GAMES

El ChivaClasico

-Wed Sep 23

Chivas USA v Guadalajara Chivas (Mexico)

Venue: Rose Bowl - Pasadena CA

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Ravi Ubha of ESPN Soccernet talks to Gabe Ferrari about his new season on loan from Sampdoria to Foggia.

dN

Jen Chang of ESPN Soccernet on the rough weekend for some big name Americans.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Very little success on the field for the teams of our boys in the Primera.

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the distance but they could only get a 0-0 home tie against Indios Juarez.

Michael Orozco - San Luis - played the full match but lost 4-2 at Cruz Azul.

Juan Fransico Torres - Pachuca - started and played 73 minutes but they lost 1-3 at home against Monterrey.

Marco Vidal - Indios - came on as a sub in the 88th minute of a 0-0 draw at UANL Tigres.

MEXICO

Cruz Azul's Argentine striker Emanuel Villa scored 4 goals in their home win over San Luis! What a game!

dN

The weekends biggest match:

-Sat Sep 19

Pachuca 1-3 Monterrey - the big surprise team of this season rolls on!

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Matchday 4 - Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Sep 22

Puerto Rico Islanders V Saprissa

Metapan V Pachuca

Houston Dynamo V Arabe Unido

-Wed Sep 23

Columbus Crew V Cruz Azul

Toluca V Jabloteh

Comunicaciones V W Connection

-Thu Sep 24

DC United V Marathon

UNAM Pumas V Real Espana

ENGLAND

Queens Park Rangers co-owner Flavio Briatore has been banned for life by Formula 1 car racing after he ordered a driver for his team Renault to crash on purpose to allow another Renault driver to win the race. According to FA rules he should also be banned from English Football due to his disqualification in any other sport. Let's see what happens.

dN

The Observer with an article on Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelloti who is off to a flying start in England.

dN

Patrick Barclay of the Times on the ruthless nature of Chelsea this season, and that is a good thing.

dN

ESPN Soccernet on Everton head coach David Moyes and his use of American training methods.

dN

Rob Smyth of the Guardian gives us 5 Things We Learned from the Premier League this Weekend.

EUROPE

Both Sampdoria & Juventus are off to perfect starts in Italy with maximum points from 4 games.

dN

In Portugal Braga is off to a surprising 5-0-0 start to lead the pack!

dN

Phil Ball of ESPN Soccernet on the Basque Wayne Rooney - Iker Munian of Atletic Bilbao, who is tearing up La Liga.

dN

Monday league roundups by the Guardian:

-Italy: Sampdoria give rivals food for thought with flying start to Serie A season by Paolo Bandini

-Spain: 'Hurricane' Athletic blowing hot with Fernando Llorente flying high by Sid Lowe

-Germany: Rock-bottom Hertha shame Berlin as Bochum lose patience with Koller by Raphael Honigstein

dN

Some big games this past weekend:

-Sun Sep 20

Manchester United 4-3 Manchester City - a wild ending with City tying it up in stoppage time, and then Michael Owen of all people getting the winner seconds later. And it all finished off with Craig Bellamy punching a spectator. Brilliant.

Chelsea 3-0 Tottenham - an emphatic London derby win for the league leaders who are better than ever right now.

Roma 3-1 Fiorentina - a good win under new coach Claudio Ranieri.

Paris Saint-Germain 1-1 Lyon - the draw leaves Lyon in 2nd place with 14 points from 6 games, and 2 behind leaders Bordeaux. PSG still have a ways to go to prove they are close to becoming contenders again.

Feyenoord 1-3 PSV - the league leaders with a very big road win over their long time rivals.
