It's Day 315 of 2017.

How great is my life? I got to visit the Minnesota United stadium site today and tour the grounds! Work boots - check. Hard hat - check. Bright yellow vest - check. Protective eye wear - check. Got to spread a little concrete for a photo-op. Walked through the dirt and rock, and into the concrete caves forming on the south end where the big trucks will drive in and lots of storage and stadium systems will be housed. Even got a glimpse into where the lockers room will be. Those cranes you can see in the sky are massive! Finally, we were standing right at midfield! Its gonna be glorious.

-Thanks to Nick Rogers and Greg from Mortenson for the tour.

During my shift today at @MNUFC's Allianz Field I worked on pouring concrete for the west side stands.#DethloonRising#Midway#CloudCity pic.twitter.com/IM1RzlvPXJ

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) November 13, 2017

dN

Hope Solo says former FIFA president Sepp Blatter sexually assaulted her backstage at a FIFA awards ceremony. From Reuters.

No one doubts that Blatter is a horrible human being, but this is a whole new low for that creep.

dN

I will be watching Tuesday's USMNT friendly against Portugal at Town Hall in Seven Corners, Minneapolis.

-Tue Nov 14

Portugal v USA - 2:45pm CT

Come and join me if you can.

dN

Christian Pulisic tells his own story, from how lucky he was to have a European passport, to his obsession with winning. From the Players Tribune.

dN

WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Croatia, Egypt, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Tunisia have qualified for the World Cup.

3 spots left that will be filled on Mon, Tue and Wed.

Italy is OUT of the World Cup for the 1st time since 1958.

Do you think the Italian version of the Tinfoil Tweekers are baying for the whole Federation and Serie A to be burned to the ground?

Final elimination rounds Schedule/Results:

Inter-Federation

1st Honduras (CONCACAF) 0-0 Australia (Asia)

1st New Zealand (Oceania) 0-0 Peru (CONMEBOL)

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 15

Australia v Honduras

Peru v New Zealand

UEFA

1st Northern Ireland 0-1 Switzerland

2nd Switzerland 0-0 Northern Ireland

Swi qualifies for World Cup

1st Croatia 4-1 Greece

2nd Greece 0-0 Croatia

Cro qualifies for World Cup

1st Sweden 1-0 Italy

2nd Italy 0-0 Sweden

Swe qualifies for World Cup.

1st Denmark 0-0 Ireland

-Tue Nov 14

Ireland v Denmark

Africa

Group A

Tunisia 0-0 OUT-Libya

DR Congo 3-1 OUT-Guinea

Tunisia qualifies for World Cup

Group B

Nigeria already qualified

Group C

Ivory Coast 0-2 Morocco

Morocco qualifies for World Cup

Group D

South Africa 0-2 Senegal

Senegal qualifies for World Cup

Group E

Egypt already qualified

dN

NASL FINAL

In their first and probably last season as a team San Francisco Deltas have won the NASL championship. Huge congrats to them.

-Sun Nov 12

San Francisco Deltas 2-0 New York Cosmos

dN

USL Final tonight - see details below.

dN

USMNT

Another friendly has been announced:

-Sun Jan 28

USA v Bosnia + Herzegovina - 6:30pm CT on FS1

Stub Hub Center in Carson CA

Friendly Schedule:

-Tue Nov 14

Portugal v USA - 2:45pm CT on FS1

Estadio Dr. Magalhaes Pessoa, Leiria

DeAndre Yedlin finds himself in the role of veteran leader at age 24. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

Who will step forward to claim the #1 goalkeeper position? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

My guess is that if there was a big game today that Brad Guzan would get the start.

Tyler Adams gets his first look with the USMNT senior team, and he has tremendous momentum behind him from this season with New York Red Bulls. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

Several players will get a chance to make a mark against Portugal tomorrow. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

You know that with the USMNT not going to the World Cup people are going to go looking for any positive repercussions they can find. Accelerated youth advancement anyone? By Sam Stejskal for Four Four Two.

USA Roster

G: Jesse Gonzalez - Dallas, Bill Hamid - Midtjylland, Ethan Horvath - Club Brugge

D: John Brooks - Wolfsburg, Cameron Carter-Vickers - Sheffield United, Eric Lichaj - Nottingham Forest, Matt Miazga - Vitesse, Tim Ream - Fulham, Jorge Villafana - Santos Laguna, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle United

M: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Weston McKennie - Schalke, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Danny Williams - Huddersfield

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Orlando City, CJ Sapong - Philadelphia Union, Josh Sargent - St. Louis Scott Gallagher

C: Dave Sarachan

Portugal Roster

G: Anthony Lopes - Lyon, Beto - Goztepe, Jose Sa - Porto

D: Antunes - Getafe), Edgar Ie - Lille, Kevin Rodrigues - Real Sociedad, Joao Cancelo - Inter, Luis Neto - Fenerbahce, Nelson Semedo - Barcelona, Pepe - Besiktas, Ricardo Ferreira - Braga, Ricardo Pereira - Porto

M: Bernardo Silva - Manchester City, Bruno Fernandes - Sporting, Danilo Pereira - Porto, Joao Mario - Inter, Manuel Fernandes - Lokomotiv, Ruben Neves - Wolverhampton

F: Andre Silva - Milan, Bruma - Leipzig, Eder - Lokomotiv, Gelson Martins - Sporting, Goncalo Guedes - Valencia, Rony Lopes - Monaco

C: Fernando Santos

dN

MLS PLAYOFFS - SEMIFINALS

Toronto is hoping to get Jozy Altidore's red card overturned. They blame the whole thing on the Red Bulls. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

What they seem to forget is that it was Altidore who started the whole mess.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Michael Boxall and his New Zealand team tied Peru 0-0 in their home leg of their World Cup qualifying series.

-Boxall played the full 90 and received a yellow card in the 75th minute. He also used a bicycle kick to clear a ball off their goal line.

1st Leg

-Sat Nov 11

New Zealand (Oceania) 0-0 Peru (CONMEBOL)

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 15

Peru v New Zealand

dN

USL FINAL

Schedule:

-Mon Nov 13:

Louisville v Swope Park - 8:00pm CT on ESPNU

dN

SOUTH AMERICA

Brazil has a no-name no-nonsense coach bringing them back to prominence, and his name in Tite (pronounced CHEE-chay). By Jon Cotterill for the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
