STARTERS

As we approach the final round of the regular season in MLS 7 teams are fighting for the remaining 3 playoff spots. Columbus, Houston, Los Angeles, Chivas USA & Seattle are all in, while only New York, San Jose & Kansas City are out. The list of scenarios for the seven teams still battling is endless. Can't wait to see how it all ends. And remember if two teams are tied on points the first tie breaker is head to head.

dN

Seattle has added another star to their dramatic initial season in MLS by making the playoffs. What a season, what a team. What else can I say, except I still hate Roger Levesque.

dN

Jay DeMerit of Watford and the USA has had his left cornea replaced the club announced on their official web site.

dN

Montreal, the 5th seed, won the USL First Division championship on Saturday.

dN

Stankovic with an astounding goal for Inter. I can safely say I have never seen one like this:

CHARLIE DAVIES

The latest news on Davies health from US Soccer: News remains positive on the condition of Charlie Davies, who continues to improve and has been moved out of the Intensive Care Unit at Washington Hospital Center in Washington, D.C. Davies has been able to receive and speak with visitors. He will have surgery early next week to repair a broken left elbow, and may require operations to deal with facial fractures.

dN

Lot's of high emotion this weekend from Davies team in France Sochaux. They had a huge match for them, away to Lyon. And they took all their energy and turned it positive to win 0-2 in a gigantic heartfelt upset.

dN

Here are 2 photos from the team's official web site:

The players pay tribute to Charlie:

The fans pay tribute to Charlie:

dN

The Portsmouth Herald/Seacoast Sunday newspaper in New Hampshire talks to many who knew Davies there as a youth player, and how much this accident has been felt by all of them.

dN

The University of Maryland daily paper has an article on Ashley Roberta who died in the car accident.

TEAM USA

There has been debate over who took the corner kick that led to Jonathan Bornstein's goal for the USA v Costa Rica. I think it was Robbie Rogers, but all video evidence I have seen is inconclusive as to who actually took it. So I posted the question on Twitter and here are the varied answers so far:

Jose Torres - IIII

Landon Donovan - I

Robbie Rogers - IIIIIIII

And one of the people who replied is a USA team member who was on the bench at the time the play happened [cough]Jimmy Conrad[/cough], so I am going with that as the definitive, and declaring that yes I was correct in thinking Robbie Rogers took that corner kick.

PS. it's been confirmed from sources on high that Rogers was the delivery mechanism.

dN

Fanhouse delivers a Q & A with Robbie Rogers. How's that for timing.

dN

Yanks Abroad looks ahead to the USA friendly in Denmark next month.

dN

Official Team Blog

USL FIRST DIVISION PLAYOFFS

Huge congrats to the new champions in Montreal.

dN

2nd Leg

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Oct 17

Montreal Impact 3-1 Vancouver Whitecaps - MI wins it 6-3 on aggregate.

dN

The Montreal Gazette reports on the championship win, the 3rd by the Impact.

-And an article on coach Marc Dos Santos.

MLS

Week 31

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Oct 14

Real Salt Lake 2-0 New York Red Bulls - RSL goals by Andy Williams & Fabian Espindola.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 16,247

Value: RSL improve outside chance at playoffs

-Sat Oct 17

Toronto FC 1-0 Real Salt Lake - TFC goal by Jim Brennan

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Attendance: 20,384

Value: Both have a shot at the playoffs, but need help

New England Revolution v Chicago Fire - 5pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Attendance: 18,064

Value: NER still dreaming of a playoff spot, and CF want #2 in East

DC United 1-0 Columbus Crew - DCU goal by Luciano Emilio

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

Attendance: 16,274

Value: DC desperate, while CC want back to back supporters shields

FC Dallas 2-1 Colorado Rapids - FCD goals by George John & Ugo Ihemelu. CR goal by Pat Noonan.

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Attendance: 15,243

Value: FCD looking for a miracle end to season, while CR are fighting to keep their playoff spot alive.

Kansas City Wizards 2-3 Seattle Sounders FC - KCS goals by Zoltan & Josh Wolff. SSFC goals by Tyrone Marshall, Roger Levesque & Nate Jaqua.

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Attendance: 10,135

Value: KC clinging to life, SS clinging to playoff spot.

Chivas USA 2-2 San Jose Earthquakes - CUSA goals by Maykel Galindo & Justin Braun. SJE goals by Brandon McDonald & Ryan Johnson.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 12,316

Value: CUSA going for a top in Western Conf.

-Sun Oct 18

Houston Dynamo v Los Angeles Galaxy - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Attendance: 29,470

Value: both stayed right where they were in the race for the #1 seed. LA holds the tie breaker

dN

EJECTIONS:

-Emilio Renteria - Columbus - Red Card

-Brian Ching - Houston - 2 Yellow Cards

dN

That low attendance number for Chivas USA is the only bummer of the whole weekend for the league. What happened there?

dN

Seattle's Freddie Ljungberg was named MLS Player of the Week.

dN

Jack Bell of the New York Times reports that the final soccer game ever will be played at Giants Stadium this weekend. And here are his 10 most memorable games there.

dN

And Red Bull Arena now has grass!

dN

Long time New England assistant coach Paul Mariner has left the team to join the coaching staff of Plymouth Argyle in England. They currently play in the Championship division. Here is the news from Argyle's official web site.

dN

Jason de Vos of the CBC on Toronto's efforts to win and stay in the playoff race.

MLS GOAL SCORING LEADERS

17 Jeff Cunningham - Dallas

16 Conor Casey - Colorado

12 Fredy Montero - Seattle

11 Guillermo Barros Schelotto - Columbus

11 Landon Donovan - Los Angeles

11 Dwayne De Rosario - Toronto

11 Ryan Johnson - San Jose

11 Josh Wolff - Kansas City

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The last round of the group stage is upon us.

dN

Official Web Site, and video highlights from all the games.

dN

Matchday 6:

-Tue Oct 20

Toluca v DC United

Puerto Rico Islanders v Columbus Crew

Saprissa v Cruz Azul

-Wed Oct 21

Pachuca v Arabe Unido

W Connection v Real Espana

Metapan v Houston Dynamo

-Thu Oct 22

San Juan Jabloteh v Marathon

Comunicaciones v UNAM Pumas

dN

Standings (after 5 of 6 Games Played):

Group A

ADV - 12 Pachuca (5 GP)

10 Arabe Unido (5 GP)

7 Houston Dynamo (5 GP)

ELIM - 0 Metapan (5 GP)

Group B

12 Toluca (5 GP)

9 DC United (5 GP)

9 Marathon (5 GP)

ELIM - 0 San Juan Jabloteh (5 GP)

Group C

ADV - 13 Cruz Azul (5 GP)

7 Columbus Crew (5 GP)

5 Saprissa (5 GP)

ELIM - 2 Puerto Rico Islanders (5 GP)

Group D

ADV - 13 UNAM Pumas (5 GP)

6 Comunicaciones (5 GP)

6 Real Espana (5 GP)

4 W Connection (5 GP)

dN

The first tie breaker is head to head.

-DC holds that tiebreaker over Marathon. Houston holds the tiebreaker over Arabe. And Columubs holds the tiebreaker over Saprissa.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Sports Illustrated is reporting that ESPN has hired Englishman Martin Tyler for play by play broadcasts to the USA from the World Cup next year.

USA @ U17 WORLD CUP

US Soccer with words from head coach Wilmer Cabrera on his roster and the tournament.

dN

Here is the USA roster, full of suprise omissions and additions:

G

Keith Cardona - New York Red Bulls Academy

Earl Edwards - Nomads SC

Spencer Richey - Crossfire Premier

D

Zachary Herold - West Pines United FC

Perry Kitchen - Chicago Magic

Boyd Okwuonu - Tulsa Thunder

Tyler Polak - CSA Legacy

Jared Watts - North Meck SC

Eriq Zavaleta - FC Pride

M

Marlon Duran - Latino Americana

Luis Gil - Pateadores

Carlos Martinez - Wilmington Jr

Will Packwood - Birmingham City

Nick Palodichuk - Washington Premier FC

Alex Shinsky - Super Nova FC

F

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls Academy

Victor Chavez - Real So Cal

Andrew Craven - First Coast Kickers

Stefan Jerome - West Pines United FC

Jack McInerney - Cobb SC

Dominick Sarle - BW Gottschee

dN

Group Stage Matches & Scores:

-Mon Oct 26

Spain v USA

-Thu Oct 29

USA v Malawi

-Sun Nov 1

USA v UAE

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

DENMARK - Superliga

Benny Feilhaber - AGF Aarhus - played the whole 90 minutes but lost 1-0 at Sonderjyske.

ENGLAND - Premiership

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance as they beat Chelsea 2-1 at home.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the full 90, got a Yellow Card and drew 1-1 at home against Wolverhampton.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Milton Keynes - came on as a 76th minute sub as they won 2-0 at home over Gillingham.

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - came on as a sub in the 55th, got both a Yellow Card and a Goal and they drew 1-1 at home against Colchester United.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - played the entire match, and scored a goal but they lost 2-1 at Wolfsburg.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the full 90 but they lost 2-1 at Eintracht Frankfurt

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - came on as a sub in the 79th minute as they won 3-1 at home over Duisburg.

David Yelldell - Koblenz - played the full 90 as they drew 1-1 at home against Ahlen.

IRELAND - Premier Division

Ryan Guy - St Patrick's Athletic - scored the first goal which was the winner in a 2-0 home victory over Bray.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played all 90 but lost 3-1 at MVV Maastricht.

NORWAY - Tippeligaen

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - came on as a sub in the 60th minutem but they lost 4-0 at Molde.

Hunter Freeman - Start - went the distance as they lost at home 0-1 to Aalesunds.

Troy Perkins - Valerenga - played the whole match and they won 0-2 on the road at Brann Bergen.

NORWAY - Adeccoligaen

Joe Lapira - Nybergsund - went the full 90 and scored but they lost 3-2 at Low Kam Bergen.

Jay Needham - Alta - went the distance and they won 3-1 at home against Mjondalen.

PORTUGAL - Taca de Portugal

Freddy Adu - Belenenses - beat Clube Oriental Lisboa 3-1 at home

Greg Garza - Sporting - beat Penafiel 3-0 at home

Kamani Hill - Guimaraes - beat Feirense 3-1 at home

SWEDEN - Superettan

Etchu Tabe - Ljungskile - went the full match and won 0-3 on the road at Sundsvall.

dN

Coming Up:

ENGLAND - Premiership

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - Mon Oct 19 at Fulham

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Mon Oct 19 v Hull

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Mon Oct 19 v Hull

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - Mon Oct 19 v Norwich City

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Game Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the distance, earned a Yellow Card, and got the 1-1 road draw at Toluca, which is not an easy thing to do.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - played the full 90 but lost at home 0-2 to Atlante.

ENGLAND

Barney Ronay of the Guardian gives us Five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

dN

And some video of the red balloon that sunk Liverpool. very funny stuff. Hahahahahahahaha.

SPAIN

This past weekend we saw #1 Barca held to a scoreless tie at Valencia, #2 Real Madrid win big again and #3 Sevilla lose to the new surprising #4 from Coruna.

dN

Phil Ball of Soccernet tries to figure out what is going on at Villarreal as they fall to the bottom of the barrell, and a look at the rest of the league as well.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on the rebirth of Deportivo La Coruna, and all the action from La Liga.

FRANCE

Sochaux took all their sorrow from the Charlie Davies car crash and turned it into positive energy as they went to league leaders Lyon and won 0-2. But #2 Bordeaux failed to take advantage by losing, leaving the unbelievable Montpellier to steal into second place. Who saw that coming?!?!

GERMANY

That big Hamburg v Bayer Leverkusen match this weekend pitting #1 against #2 was as dull as it gets, and allowed #'s 3,4 & 5, Schalke, Werder Bremen and Wolfsburg to get back closer to the lead.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on the lack of goals in Hamburg v Bayer Leverkusen and a full weekend round of the Bundesliga.

ITALY

Inter went on the road, rested Samuel Eto'o & Diego Milito, and just destroyed a promising Genoa team 0-5, while #2 Sampdoria, #3 Juventus & #4 Fiorentina could only get 1 point from their matches. Milan beat Roma 2-1 in the other match between the big name teams.

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Inter's awesome display with Wesley Sneijder at the helm and the weekend round up.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Matchday 3 is this week.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune with an article on Lionel Messi of Barcelona.

dN

Matches & Scores

-Tue Oct 20

Debreceni v Fiorentina

Liverpool v Lyon

Barcelona v Rubin Kazan

Inter v Dynamo Kyiv

Rangers v Unirea Urziceni

Stuttgart v Sevilla

AZ Alkmaar v Arsenal

Olympiacos v Standard Liege

-Wed Oct 21

Bordeaux v Bayern Munich

Juventus v Maccabi Haifa

CSKA Moskva v Manchester United

Wolfsburg v Besiktas

Real Madrid v Milan

Zurich v Marseille

Porto v APOEL

Chelsea v Atletico Madrid

dN

Group Stage Standings

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

The 3rd of 6 Group Stage games is on Thu Oct 22.

UEFA WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Paul Doyle of the Guardian examines the match ups for the last 4 spots from Europe.

dN

Here is the schedule:

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Sat Nov 14

Ireland v France

Portugal v Bosnia-Herzegovina

Greece v Ukraine

Russia v Slovenia

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 18

France v Ireland

Bosnia-Herzegovina v Portugal

Ukraine v Greece

Slovenia v Russia

ARGENTINA

I should have put this in print so that we don't have to discuss it now, but never doubted for one second that Argentina would make it to the World Cup. I never understood all the people proclaiming them dead and buried. Yes I know it was close, but its over and they are in.

ASIA

Simon Kuper of the Financial Times on North Korea's love of football.

-Even genuine nut jobs can love the beautiful game.

SOUTH AFRICA

With just 8 months until the tournament South Africa has lost coach Joel Santana who has resigned. Carlos Alberto Perreira is rumored to return to the helm. (Thanks to Jay for the rumor.)

ENDERS

Have you ever seen this logo for the Belgian team KAA Gent? I was very surprised by it.
