CONTEST du NORD

We are closing in on 1000 Twitter followers & the person who becomes that number gets a prize. A Nike baseball cap from your choice of teams: Paris St Germain, Atletico Madrid, Manchester United, Barcelona, Werder Bremen or Inter Milan.

Don't hesitate. Join today.

If you are already a Twitter friend, don't fret, just watch for more give away's very soon.

STARTERS

Stunning appearance: Clint Dempsey comes on the field in the 58th minute for Fulham in UEFA Europa Cup action at Juventus! Wow! How incredible is this! They lost 3-1 however.

dN

WOW! Charlie Davies: "I’m hoping to be back as soon as possible and to play some matches by the end of April." - AND - "I’m outside, running at a good pace, as far as jogging, cutting, agility and playing with the ball. I’m starting to dribble and trying to get the movements back. By the end of next week, I’ll think I’ll be pretty confident to end up joining the team again in training."

-A full Q & A update on the Sochaux website.

dN

Clint playing. Charlie running. Gooch almost ready to train. What's next? Jermaine Jones making it through a reserve game with no pain?!?!?! I hope hope hope.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to originally extend it until Feb 12, and a further 13 days to Feb 25. And now that Feb 25 has come and gone with no new deal being finished, we enter the Twilight Zone.

dN

This statement was released yesterday after 2 days of talks: Major League Soccer and the MLS Players Union met in Washington, D.C. under the auspices of George H. Cohen, the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS). MLS and the Players Union have agreed to continue collective bargaining agreement discussions with the FMCS.

dN

Frank Dell'apa of the Boston Globe talks to people involved in a NASL players strike, and tells us how that worked out.

dN

John Molinaro of the CBC talks to Toronto player rep Nick Garcia about the possibility of a players strike.

dN

The Washington Post reports that the players have voted 350-2 to strike if they have to. I think that is definitive.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Real Madrid is out. For the past several years they have not been able to get past the round of 16, and Lyon did it to them this year.

dN

Lyon and Manchester United join Bayern Munich and Arsenal as half of the Quarterfinals field is set.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune reviews Wednesday's games.

dN

Round of 16 2nd Leg Matches & Scores (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Tue Mar 9

Fiorentina 3-2 Bayern Munich (1-2) - BM advance on the away goals tie breaker after ending 4-4 on aggregate - Fio goals by Juan Vargas & Stevan Jovetic(2). BM goals by Mark van Bommel & Arjen Robben.

Arsenal 5-0 Porto (1-2) - Ars advance on aggregate - Ars goals by Nicklas Bendtner(3), Samir Nasri & Emmanuel Eboue.

-Wed Mar 10

Manchester United v Milan (3-2) - MU advance 7-2 on aggregate - MU goals by Wayne Rooney(2), Ji-Sung Park & Darren Fletcher.

Real Madrid 1-1 Lyon (0-1) - Lyo advance 2-1 on aggregate - RM goal by Cristiano Ronaldo. Lyo goal by Miralem Pjanic.

dN

Next weeks games:

-Tue Mar 16

Sevilla v CSKA Moscow (1-1)

Chelsea v Inter (1-2)

-Wed Mar 17

Barcelona v Stuttgart (1-1)

Bordeaux v Olympiacos (1-0)

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Quarterfinal 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Columbus Crew 2-2 Toluca - CC goals both by Steven Sheepshead Lenhart. Tol goals by Antonio Naelson & Antonio Rios.

-Wed Mar 10

Marathon 2-0 UNAM Pumas - Mar goals by Walter Martinez(PK) & Carlos Mejia(PK).

Comunicaciones 1-1 Pachuca - Com goal by Rolando Fonseca. Pac goal by Paul Aguilar.

-Thu Mar 11

Arabe Unido v Cruz Azul

dN

USA international Jose Torres was given the night off by Pachuca.

dN

In case you are wondering, Away Goals is the tiebreaker for this tournament.

HEAD INJURIES

Long time MLS forward Alecko Eskandarian has been forced into retirement due to damage caused by multiple concussions. Very sad.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

From the official DC United blog Behind the Badge after winning in Mexico last night:

Even though the match was incredibly compelling, the most stirring moment of the evening came when Santos’ supporters applauded United’s players as they left the pitch. This gesture was moving, as United’s staff and players returned the fans’ applause and Black-and-Red kits were thrown into the crowd. It is not often that American sides are received in this manner in Mexico, a notion that goalkeeper Troy Perkins recognizes.

“It’s the first time that I have seen that type of class and appreciation from an opposing set of fans, especially after we just defeated the team that they support,” said Perkins.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Chicago has signed talented but underachieving Liberian-Dutch forward Collins John. Will the gamble pay off.

dN

Charlie Corr of ESPN Chicago with an article on Patrick Nyarko who had a good season last year and is looking to build on that.

dN

Real Salt Lake has signed a loan deal to acquire Costa Rican forward Alvaro Saborio from Swiss club Sion, who had previously loaned him out to Bristol City in England's Championship division.

dN

Chivas USA formally announced the retirement of Sasha Victorine.

-We saw this coming as 3 weeks ago Kansas City announced Victorine would be one of the TV commentator for their games this season.

dN

The Daily Breeze has a Chivas USA article that was NOT written by Nick Green. Wow! Phil Collin looks at one of the teams big surprises in the preseason - midfielder Michael Lahoud. And a few other team notes as well. This is great to see.

dN

Orrin Schwarz of Chicago's Daily Herald previews the Western Conference.

dN

Greg Sutton is now the backup keeper in New York. Cut loose last season by Toronto he sat out the year waiting for a new job.

dN

And Carl Robinson officially signs on with New York too. Yes, another former TFCer.

dN

San Jose has announced a new TV broadcast team - which means they Troy Dayak anymore - I was not a fan.

dN

Mark Young at MLSnet gives us a round-up on former MLS players around the world.

dN

Frank Dell'apa of the Boston Globe talks to former New England asst manager Paul Mariner about life after MLS. Plus other Rev's news.

MLS EXPANSION

The Vancouver Province reports on the Whitecap's new CEO who comes from Tottenham in London where he served as the team's Executive Director.

-Sidebar article on what the job will most likely entail.

MLS PRESEASON GAMES

Wins on Wednesday night for San Jose, DC & LA.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Mar 10

Tottenham Reserves (ENGLAND) 0-1 San Jose

Match report from the Tottenham website.

Santos Laguna (Mexico) 2-3 DC United

A very good match report from the DCU website.

LA Galaxy 1-0 Puntarenas (Costa Rica)

-Thu Mar 11

Houston Dynamo v Chicago Fire

Seattle Sounders v Portland Timbers (USSF D2)

dN

Pioneer Cup - to honor Lamar Hunt

-Mar 20

FC Dallas v Columbus Crew

USL NEWS

The USL has begun posting their countdown of the Top 25 USL First Division players of the past Decade:

25-21

20

19

18

17

16

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

#7 - Scott Schweitzer

dN

Not many spots left for a member of the Minnesota Thunder to make this list?

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

You know Landon Donovan has made it in England when The Sun newspaper is reporting on his departure. Cuz we all know that The Sun = Pure Class.

dN

World Soccer previews the new seasons that kick off this weekend in Sweden and Norway. Lot's of Americans are involved.

CONCACAF

Honduras has announced 3 and possibly 4 World Cup warm up matches. All locations to be named later.

-Thu May 27

Honduras v Azerbaijan

-Wed Jun 2

Honduras v Belarus

-Sat Jun 5

Honduras v Romania

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Round of 16, 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 11

Hamburg v Anderlecht

Rubin Kazan v Wolfsburg

Atletico Madrid v Sporting Portugal

Lille v Liverpool

Benfica v Marseille

Panathinaikos v Standard Liege

Juventus v Fulham

Valencia v Werder Bremen

COPA LIBERTADORES

GROUP STAGE (runs through to Apr 22) - This Weeks Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Universidad Catolica 2-2 Universidad Chile - UCat goals by Matias Rubio & Francisco Silva. UChi goals by Juan Manuel Olivera & Edson Puch.

Racing Club 2-1 Cerro Porteno - Rac goals by Mathias Mirabajes & Martin Cauteruccio. CP goal by Luis Caceres.

Bolivar 0-0 Estudiantes

Cuenca 2-0 Morelia - Cue goals by Gabriel Mendez & Luis Escalada.

-Wed Mar 10

Independiente 1-1 Corinthians - Ind goal by Cesar Valoyes. Cor goal by Dentinho.

Once Caldas 1-1 Monterrey - OC goal by John Valencia. Mon goal by Hector Morales.

Alianza 2-0 Juan Aurich - Ali goals by Jose Fernandez & Giancarlo Tragodara.

Nacional 2-2 Banfield - Nac goals by Gustavo Varela & Mario Reguieiro. Ban goals both by James Rodriguez(1 via PK).

Caracas 1-3 Flamengo - Car goal by Rafael Castellin. Fla goals by Vagner Love(2 - 1 via PK) & Rodrigo Alvim.

-Thu Mar 11

Nacional v Sao Paulo

Quito v Internacional

Italia v Cruzeiro

Emelec v Cerro

dN

Standings (6 Rounds):

Grupo 1 (2 played)

4 Corinthians (Brazil)

3 Racing Club (Uruguay)

2 Independiente Medellin (Colombia)

1 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay)

Grupo 2 (2 played)

7 Once Caldas (Colombia) (3 played)

3 Sao Paulo (Brazil)

1 Monterrey (Mexico) (3 played)

0 Nacional (Paraguay)

Grupo 3 (2 played)

9 Alianza Lima (Peru) (3 played)

4 Estudiantes de la Plata (Argentina)

3 Juan Aurich (Peru) (3 played)

1 Bolivar (Bolivia)

Grupo 4 (3 played)

7 Libertad (Paraguay)

7 Universitario (Peru)

3 Lanus (Argentina)

0 Blooming (Bolivia)

Grupo 5 (1 played)

3 Cerro (Uruguay)

3 Internacional (Brazil)

0 Deportivo Quito (Ecudador)

0 Emelec (Ecuador)

Grupo 6 (2 played)

7 Banfield (Argentina) (3 played)

5 Nacional (Uruguay) (3 played)

3 Cuenca (Ecudador)

1 Morelia (Mexico)

Grupo 7 (2 played)

6 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

3 Cruzeiro (Brazil)

3 Colo Colo (Chile)

0 Italia (Venezuela)

Grupo 8 (2 played)

6 Flamengo (Brazil)

4 Universidad Chile (Chile)

1 Universidad Catolica (Chile)

0 Caracas FC (Venezuela)

ENDERS

My friends at the Original Winger are giving away a new USA blue away jersey. Go get it.
