It's Day 129 of 2017.

The 2017 US Open Cup kicks off tonight!

dN

Men's U20 World Cup - South Korea

USMNT - Group F - Schedule/Results:

-Mon May 22

USA v Ecuador - 3:00AM CT on FS1

Incheon Stadium

-Thu May 25

USA v Ecuador - 6:00AM CT on FS1

Incheon Stadium

-Sun May 28

USA v Saudi Arabia - 4:00AM CT on FS1

Daejeon Stadium

USA Roster

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown U, Brady Scott - De Anza Force

D: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham, Marlon Fossey - Fulham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City

M: Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Luca De La Torre - Fulham, Derrick Jones - Philadelphia Union, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland, Gedion Zelalem - Arsenal

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Lagos Kunga - Atlanta United, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - unaffiliated, Josh Sargent - St. Louis Scott Gallagher Missouri, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake

C: Tab Ramos

dN

Just watched the highlights of Chelsea v Middlesbrough from Monday with American Brad Guzan in goal. All three Chelsea goals went through his legs. Oof. So Atlanta has that to look forward to.

What has happened to Brad Guzan? Sitting on the bench for 4 years at West Ham Aston Villa (for fucks sake Bruce, get it right - thanks kgaard) sure didn't help.

dN

Jermaine Jones suffered a sprained knee and will be out a month, meaning we won't see him here in Minneapolis on May 21 when the LA Galaxy visit MNUFC. I was really looking forward to seeing him play in person. I know, I know. But I like him.

This does not bode well for him playing in the USMNT World Cup qualifiers in June either.

dN

USL has plans to grow, and grow, and grow some more. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Miguel Ibarra played a full 90 minutes for the first time this season, set up both goals, and was named to MLS Team Of The Week - and he is just STARTING to regain his best form! By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

A deeper look into the three keys to the Minn win over KC - focusing on Danladi, Ibson and Calvo. By Alex Schieferdecker for Fifty Five One.

The next transfer window for MLS re-opens on July 10 - will this be the place that MN goes searching for more players? I sure hope so. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

This team is very thin everywhere on the field except central midfield.

Yes, its @Chris_Ramirez17 that leads all @MLS newcomers in productivity through Week 10. pic.twitter.com/ORAwyojF5W

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) May 9, 2017

Bobby Shuttleworth of @MNUFC with 2 black eyes courtesy of Dom "Who Me?" Dwyer. (still from video by @andygreder) pic.twitter.com/LcCrfpfoev

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) May 9, 2017

Upcoming Schedule/Results:

-Sat May 13

Toronto v Minnesota - 2:00pm CT on My29

dN

MLS

Most points since Apr 1:

14 Tor

13 KC

12 Van

12 NYC

12 Orl

11 Dal

10 Min

10 DC

10 Hou

9 NYRB

9 Colu

9 SanJ

8 Chi

8 Mon

8 Por

7 Sal

7 NewE

6 Sea

5 Atl

5 LA

5 Phi

0 Colo

dN

USMNT

With crunch time coming up quickly who're the USMNT players hitting stride and who's gasping for air. By Arch Bell for ESPNFC.

This is a weird list: No mention of Pulisic seeming to hit the wall physically at the end of the Bundesliga season here, and no mention of Jermaine Jones weekend knee injury. Those two are starters. Only two other regulars from the team are featured in this article.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE SEMIFINALS

Juventus heads to the final. The game deteriorated into a series of dives, flops, cheap shots and whining down the stretch, with Juve providing most of it. Check your wallet too.

2nd Leg

-Tue May 9

Juventus 2-1 Monaco - Juv advances 4-1 on aggregate.

-Wed May 10

Atletico Madrid v Real Madrid (0-3)

Final: Sat Jun 3 in Cardiff.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Emerson Hyndman has ended his loan at Rangers after suffering an unspecified foot injury that they say will keep him out for the rest of the season, which is 2 more games.

How bad is it? There is no real word on what or how bad the injury is.

He is under contract with Bournemouth for next season.

For many years American soccer fans cheered for Fulham in England because the team always seemed to have a fresh stock of American players. After several seasons falling down the slopes of the English pyramid head coach Slavisa Jokanovic has stopped the bleeding and has them dreaming of the Premier League again. By Amy Lawrence for the Guardian.

Tim Ream is the current USA international in the Fulham first team. And a couple of talented youth players are in the Craven Cottage system too.

dN

LIGA MX

Clausura Liguilla Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

Leg 1

-Wed May 10

Tigres(7) v Monterrey(2) - Time TBA on Univision Deportes

Santos Laguna(5) v Toluca(4) - Time TBA on Univision Deportes

-Thu May 11

Morelia(8) v Tijuana(1)

Atlas(6) v Guadalajara(3)

The Bird Is The Word
