It's Day 265 of 2017.

Puerto Rico needs our help badly. The damage from Hurricane Maria is extreme.

I asked for suggestions on where to donate money and this is the consensus choice: Hurricane Maria Community Recovery Fund.

Thank you to Rafael, Javier and Paul for helping us find this fund.

dN

The Mexican football league -LIGA MX - has suspended all games until further notice.

The earthquake in the country is so devastating that no one has soccer on their mind.

Donations to the Brigada de Rescate fund are very appreciated.

Thanks to Pancho Villa's Army for the suggestion of this fund.

dN

UEFA will do away with ALL international friendlies start in 2018 after the World Cup. Any open dates on the FIFA national team's calendar will be filled with a European tournament called The Nations League. No more friendlies against European opponents for the rest of the world.

Here is what the "league" will look like.

These games will have NOTHING to do with Euro Championship (or qualifying) or World Cup (or qualifying.)

dN

After several years of underwhelming, unexciting or even poor teams is Jose Mourinho and his Manchester United back to his old high quality ways? By Jonathan Wilson for the Guardian.

No matter what he does or says you won't ever get to me to say anything bad about Mourinho. I think the guys in brilliant.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

People are finally catching on to what I have been saying for over 3 years - Ibson is really freakin good. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

The Loons have built a solid fan base in Year One. By Chip Scoggins for the Minneapolis Star Tribune.

Saturday's opponent Dallas has been baaaaaaaaaaaaaad for the past 2 months. What is going on with a team that most predicted would be great this season? By Peter Welpton for Dallas Sports Day.

Dallas stats:

Have not won in past 9 games going back to July 22. 5 losses and 4 ties.

7 scored in that time.

19 allowed in that time.

Last game was 0-0 tie at home against Seattle on Sep 16. At least they got a good game from their defense.

Maxi Urruti has 12 goals

Roland Lamah has 8 goals

Jesse Gonzalez is their prodigy goalkeeper

Kelyn Acosta is their prodigy midfielder

Since Acosta, Uruti and Michael Barrios were denied Summer transfers this team hasn't been the same.

Schedule:

-Sat Sep 23

Minnesota v Dallas

The MNUFC Academy teams travel to Chicago to take on Sockers next weekend.

dN

Curious: du Nord Music Mix Vol 139 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

If New England wants to step up their game and hire a head coach that isn't coming out of the same pile so many teams in MLS pick from then here are some interesting ideas. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

Week 29 Schedule:

(13 games)

-Wed Sep 20

Atlanta 4-0 LA

Toronto 3-5 Montreal

-Sat Sep 23

New York City v Houston

New England v Toronto

DC v San Jose

Philadelphia v Chicago

Columbus v New York RB

Minnesota v Dallas

Salt Lake v Seattle

Vancouver v Colorado

-Sun Sep 24

Kansas City v LA - 1pm CT on FOX

Atlanta v Montreal

Portland v Orlando - 7pm CT on FS1

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

Wilstermann was a great story while it lasted but last night River Plate made sure there would be no return, winning 8-0!

Lanus from Argentina advanced on PKS.

Quarterfinals Results:

Leg Two

-Thu Sep 21

River Plate (Arg) 8-0 Wilstermann (Bol) - RP advances 8-3 on aggregate

Lanus (Arg) 2-0 San Lorenzo (Arg) - series ends tied 2-2, Lan advances 4-3 in Penalty Kick Shootout

-Wed Sep 20

Santos (Bra) 0-1 Barcelona (Ecu) - Bar advances 2-1 on aggregate

Gremio (Bra) 1-0 Botafogo(Bra) - Gre advances 1-0 on aggregate

Semifinal Schedule:

-Dates TBA

River Plate v Lanus

Barcelona v Gremio

Final Schedule:

-Dates TBA

2 Semifinal Winners

dN

NASL

My latest theory: Could it be possible that the rebirth of the NASL originated with Traffic & Aaron Davidson who behind the scenes were looking for yet another entity to sell TV rights for and take more kickbacks.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Huddersfield has announced that Danny Williams suffered a broken foot. No word yet on how long he will be out of action.

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPES TOP LEAGUES:

Weekend Schedule:

-Fri Sep 22

Bayern v Wolfsburg

-Sat Sep 23

Alaves v Real Madrid

Girona v Barcelona

Juventus v Torino - The Turin derby

Manchester City v Crystal Palace

Southampton v Manchester United

Dortmund v Monchengladbach

Stoke v Chelsea

Roma v Udinese

Montpellier v PSG

West Ham v Tottenham

SPAL v Napoli

Hoffenheim v Schalke

Leicester v Liverpool

Atletico Madrid v Sevilla

Lyon v Dijon

-Sun Sep 24

Sampdoria v Milan

Inter v Genoa

Marseille v Toulouse

-Mon Sep 25

Arsenal v West Brom

The Bird Is The Word
