It's Day 26 of 2017.

Minnesota United Preseason:

Hottest rumor in the land today is that Minnesota has paid big $ for Kevin Molino from Orlando:

Orlando City getting $650k total (450 GAM/200 TAM). GK Patrick McLain also going to Minn. Will have full story up ASAP

— Alicia Rose DelGallo (@OSAliciaD) January 26, 2017

And the starting goalkeeper John Alvbage is on a plane from Sweden as I type.

Swedish article on the move: This article says Minnesota has completed a loan deal for Goteborg goalkeeper John Alvbage.

That leaves 4 open spots left on the roster. Here are my priorities:

DESTROYER!

Left Fullback

Right Fullback

Forward (most likely in the summer)

Finally, this bit of news from Sam Stejskal who works at MLSsoccer.com and seems to have a pretty good line inside Minnesota United's front office:

Amos Magee told me today that MN won't sign a DP before season. Will build core of TAM guys, add DP based on need in summer/next winter.

— Sam Stejskal (@samstejskal) January 26, 2017

Training camp roster:

G: Alec Ferrell, Marco Carducci (trialist), Sammy Ndjock (preseason invitee), Charlie Lyon (trialist)

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (preseason invitee), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Thomas de Villardi, Joe Greenspan, Ismaila Jome, Brent Kallman, Lance Laing (preseason invitee), Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Andrew Tinari (trialist)

M: Bernardo Anor, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Duke LaCroix (trialist), Collin Martin, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schüller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson, Johan Venegas, Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, David Goldsmith (trialist), Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez

dN

Canary: du Nord Music Mix Vol 109 (download + extract)

dN

This is how two grownups reacted while sitting in a room with Jimmy Page and he picked up a guitar and played the riff from Whole Lotta Love.

dN

I will be watching the USMNT game on Sunday afternoon in Minneapolis at the brand new Bunny's Northeast on 13th Ave.

Former MLS, Liga MX and USMNT player Herculez Gomez is very articulate and has some things to say about the current state of the Men's National Team. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

Others who played under Arena give their thoughts on his chances of succeeding a 2nd time with the National Team. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

The Bird Is The Word
