It's Day 336 of 2016.

Chapecoense was supposed to play Atletico Nacional now. Fox Sports in Brazil airing a black screen with a hashtag "90 minutes of silence" ?? pic.twitter.com/QbBw5XWp8v

— Guilherme Cruz (@guicruzzz) December 1, 2016

dN

MLS Playoffs - Semifinals:

The 2016 Final will be played in Toronto!

What do you want me to say? Epic. Nuts. Nerve wracking. Bonkers. Brilliance.

Benoit Cheyrou and Tosaint Ricketts, both subs, scored for Toronto in Added Extra Time to break the 5-5 aggregate tie.

And Jozy Altidore was a monster! He has now scored in 6 consecutive playoff games for Toronto.

Montreal had the lead when the game started. Pushed it further with the first goal. And again with a goal to start the 2nd half. But the pressure seemed to have caught up to them and they folded down the stretch.

When Sebastian Giovinco went out injured early in AET how many of you thought TFC was done?

Where did Ignacio Piatti go to after about the 80th minute? He vanished.

You know who didn't vanish for Montreal? Marco Donadel! Holy smokes did he leave it all on the field or what? I love that guys tenacity.

The fans support in Montreal, Seattle and Toronto was just fantastic. I am not going to dump on Colorado but it just wasn't even close to the same level of passion.

Attendance for the two legs in the East was 98,000!

Toronto pure joy. By Ryan Wolstat of Toronto Sun.

Toronto finally wins a big one. By Cathal Kelly of the Globe And Mail.

Montreal Heartbreak. By Stu Cowan of Montreal Gazette.

Toronto and Montreal produced a classic. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

The analytics of the game tell all. By Matt Doyle of MLSsoccer.

2nd Leg-Sun Nov 27

Colorado Rapids 0-1 Seattle Sounders - SS advances 3-1 on aggregate - SS goal by Jordan Morris.

-Wed Nov 30

Toronto 5-2 Montreal - Tor advances 7-5 on aggregate - Tor goals by Armando Cooper, Jozy Altidore, Nick Hagglund, Benoit Cheyrou + Tosaint Ricketts. MI goals by Dominic Oduro + Ignacio Piatti.

Final

-Sat Dec 10

Toronto FC v Seattle Sounders FC - 7:00pm CT on FOX

Sadly I will not be there this year. I'm bummed. I love going to this game.

Toronto is the favorite to win it all.

dN

Finally, after 9 years of futility, TFC gets it right this season. By Dough McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

Oscar Pareja of Dallas named MLS Coach Of The Year

Other finalists: Pablo Mastroeni of Colorado Rapids and Patrick Vieira of New York City.

dN

Kevin Venegas + Justin Davis are officially the first players announced for the MNUFC MLS roster.

dN

Minnesota United will again take part in the Portland preseason invitational tournament:

-Thu Feb 9

Minnesota United v Vancouver Whitecaps – 5:00pm PT

Portland Timbers v Real Salt Lake – 7:30pm PT

-Sun Feb 12

Vancouver Whitecaps v Real Salt Lake – 2:30pm PT

Minnesota United v Portland Timbers – 5:00pm PT

-Wed Feb 15

Minnesota United v Real Salt Lake – 5:00pm PT

Portland Timbers v Vancouver Whitecaps – 7:30pm PT

dN

Comparing new Minnesota head coach Adrian Heath to Atlanta's Gerardo Martinez. By Haris Kruskic of Dirty South Soccer.

They rate Martinez a mile ahead of Heath. Natch.

But like the Golden Ball or the Group Of Death, you can only analyze this one after the fact. Not before.

dN

Five of the hottest topics around MLS, and more, reviewed. By Steve Davis at FC Dallas.

dN

Refreshments: du Nord Music Mix Vol 106 (download + extract)

dN

Liga MX Apertura Liguilla Semifinals:

Tigres got the road win and the road goal. Will be hard to keep them out of the Final.

Semifinals Schedule:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 30

Leon(8) 0-1 Tigres(3) - Tig goal by Andre Gignac.

-Thu Dec 1

Necaxa(7) v America(5) - 9pm CT on Univision Deportes

2nd Leg

-Sat Dec 3

Tigres(3) v Leon(8)

-Sun Dec 4

America(5) v Necaxa(7)

Performance of the Americans in Liga MX Liguilla:

William Yarborough - Leon - played the full 90 as they lost at home. He did his best on the 1 goal that was scored against him.

Jose Torres - Tigres - on the bench but did not play in the winning effort.

dN

Coming up this weekend in Europe:

-Sat Dec 3

Manchester City v Chelsea - 6:30am CT on NBCSN

Barcelona v Real Madrid - 9:00am CT on beIN Sports

-Sun Dec 4

Lazio v Roma - 8:00am CT on beIN Sports

dN

Today I saw someone refer to Tinfoil Ted as Fred Phelps. Perfect.

The Bird Is The Word
