It's Day 327 of 2016.

Jurgen Klinsmann is out. I just have to say it again.

And my name sake and Zen master Bruce Arena has been named as the new national team coach:

.@ussoccer President @SunilGulati has named Bruce Arena as the new head coach of the #USMNT: https://t.co/u4hj7iAYSN #BruceisBack pic.twitter.com/WtZH4uMHb5

— U.S. Soccer (@ussoccer) November 22, 2016

I am not surprised or disappointed by this hire. Its not the sexiest choice. But I really think with the issues at hand the US federation went for safe, simple and solid. Klinsmann was a longer term plan that had ground to a halt and and begun to spin down the drain. Now its all about plugging the holes, and winning games to take the team to Russia. Then they can get back to the bigger plan.

US Soccer president Sunil Gulati had a press conference today to answer all the questions everyone is asking. I had hoped to include the transcript of that conference call here, but its not been posted by the time I am ready to close up shop for the day. So you will just have to go search that out on your own.

This is the best summation of Jurgen Klinsmann's problems at the helm of the USMNT. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

Words from the man who released the bats on Klinsmann back in the winter of 2013, showing that the structure wasn't high quality wood as promised, but rather cheap veneer. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

After his excellent expose in 2013 Straus found himself out of a job and shunned by US Soccer. He has been back in the fold the past year or two but it can't have been comfortable for him.

You know whats gonna happen in 2018 don't you? Klinsmann will get another national team job, that team will qualify for the World Cup and then be drawn into the group with the USA!

Getting back to Bruce Arena for a moment:

He will most assuredly say that some of the media don't know what they're talking about!

Arena will show off his championship level sarcasm skills.

Bruce won't contradict himself, fail to take responsibility, or make promises he can't deliver.

And at some point he will bitch about some aspect MLS.

Arena says that their WILL be a domestic player training camp in January.

And finally I would love to see Steve Cherundolo as part of Bruce Arena's USA staff, and be the eyes and ears in Europe.

Sunil Gulati (paraphrasing): "Our fans are far more intelligent about the game then they were 15 or 20 years ago." Touche!

American holding midfielder Danny Williams, currently playing great at Reading, is the first USMNT player to talk about the new head coach and says he is willing to show what he is made of. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

dN

LATE ADDITION:

A hearty thank you message from Jurgen Klinsmann has been posted on his Facebook page. [VIDEO]

dN

Key members of the USA Women's national team were on 60 Minutes Sunday night to talk about their pay and what they see as unfairness and inadequacy. [VIDEO] From 60 Minutes.

The collective bargaining agreement between the team and federation dissolves at the end of the day on Dec 31.

A breakdown of that interview and a deeper look at the issues and big questions. By Beau Dure of the Guardian.

dN

Great note from the U20 Women's World Cup. By Mike Woitalla of Soccer America.

USA and France ended the group stage tied on points, goal differential, goals scored, goals allowed and head to head. Amazing. So how did the USA get the #1 seed and France the #2? They NEXT tie breaker was yellow card and the USA had 0 while France had 1. Wild.

dN

HBO releases preview of @RealSportsHBO episode about former USSF Executive VP Chuck Blazer. Show airs 10pm ET tonite https://t.co/Tuxrw5G5R3

— World Soccer Talk (@wsoccertalk) November 22, 2016

dN

MLS Playoffs - Semifinals Schedule:

A look at Seattle and their weird season. By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times.

Pablo Mastroeni is gonna need everything to go right for the underdog Rapids to succeed. By Daniel Boniface of the Denver Post.

Its beyond a major city rivalry for Toronto. And they say the shitty turf in Montreal will not deter them. By Kurt Larson of the Toronto Sun.

Over 61,000 supporters will be pushing Montreal as hard as they can against their hated foe. By Stu Cowan of the Montreal Gazette.

1st Leg

-Tue Nov 22

Montreal Impact v Toronto - 7:00pm CT on ESPN

Seattle Sounders v Colorado Rapids - 9:00pm CT on FS1

dN

So, who does the LA Galaxy hire as their new head coach:

Arena's top assistant Dave Sarachan left the team last week, so there will be no promotion for him.

dN

FC Dallas just keeps rolling forward with its plan for total domination on a minimal budget, signing another 15(!) year old from their academy to the senior squad - Bryan Reynolds. That makes 17 of them signed now.

dN

Liga MX Apertura Liguilla Quarterfinals:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 23

Leon(8) v Tijuana(1)

Necaxa(7) v Pachuca(2)

Pumas(6) v Tigres(3)

America(5) v Guadalajara(4)

dN

UEFA Champions League - Group Stage - Big Teams - Matchday 5:

Have already advanced to the knock out rounds: Arsenal (A), Atletico Madrid (D), Bayern Munich (D), Dortmund (F) and PSG (A).

-Tue Nov 22

Sporting 1-2 Real Madrid

Sevilla 1-3 Juventus

-Wed Nov 23

Celtic v Barcelona

Monchengladbach v Manchester City

Americans in the UCL:

Christian Pulisic - Dortmund - Tue Nov 22 - Gets the start and was always in the middle of a chaotic wide open game that they won 8-4 v Legia. 12 goals in 1 game is nuts AND a UEFA Champions League record.

Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach - Wed Nov 23 v Man City

The Bird Is The Word
