It's Day 53 of 2017.

All 25.5k tix have been sold for Orlando's season opener in their new stadium. That is great.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League

My Note: I think Dallas has a really good shot to win CCL! Tigres has to be the favorite though.

Pachuca got a scoreless draw on the road which leaves it all in their hands for leg 2. Just win baby.

American Omar Gonzalez played a strong game at centerback for the Tuzos.

New York Red Bulls are taking a "no excuses" attitude for the CCL. By Brian Lewis for the NY Post.

An little preview on Vancouver too, hitting the road for game 1. By Patrick Johnston for The Province.

And finally a look at what Dallas brings to the tournament on Thursday. By Arman Kafai of the Dallas Morning News.

Quarterfinal Matches:

1st Leg

-Tue Feb 21

Saprissa(6) 0-0 Pachuca(3)

-Wed Feb 22

Red Bulls(8) v Vancouver(1) - 7:00pm CT

Tigres(5) v Pumas(4) - 9:00pm CT

-Thu Feb 23

Dallas(7) v Arabe Unido(2) - 7:00pm CT

-All games on Univision Deportes & CONCACAF Facebook

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED PRESEASON

Well Minnesota finally got something other than a tie game in preseason - unfortunately it was a 0-3 beat down by Toronto. Oof.

But heavy rain and a mostly failed video stream kept us from seeing virtually all of the 2nd half.

Its official: MU has signed 29 year old Swiss fullback Jerome Thiessen from Luzern FC.

In Orlando for the final 2 preseason games:

-Wed Feb 22

MU 0-3 Toronto

-Sun Feb 26

MU v San Antonio (USL)

My Notes:

MU starters - Alvbage, Taylor, Demidov, Calvo, Davis, Saeid, Warner, Schuller, Ibarra, JVenegas, Ramirez.

No idea who any subs might have been.

High press worked well for Minn, but they didn't have enough quality attackers on the field to be effective.

Three defensive midfielders also didn't provide nearly enough cover for the back four. Got hit on the counter attack several times.

No shots on goal for MU in the 1st half. And only 1 great chance created - shot went wide.

Two 1st half goals by Sebastian Giovinco.

Easily could have been 4 in the first half for TFC - they had golden chances.

In the second half the video stream failed so I saw none of it. I do know Toronto scored a 3rd.

ADDITION - I just saw video of TFC's 3rd and it was a quick pass right down the middle that split the 3 central midfielders and both centerbacks, then goalscorer Hamilton rounded the goalkeeper and popped it into an empty net. That's Amateur Hour from MNUFC.

The Good - not much.

The Bad - pretty much all of it.

I hope the coaching staff find some good things to take from the game.

dN

The Nod: du Nord Music Mix Vol 113 (download + extract)

dN

Beautiful new video from Tribe Called RED.

dN

The use of fullbacks as more attacker rather than defender is not new, but always changing and having a big impact in England this season. By Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian.

dN

Huddersfield Town coached by American David Wagner has climbed up to 3rd place in the English Championship (2nd div.)

Monday they beat American Danny Williams and 4th place Reading 1-0.

dN

UEFA Champions League

14 goals on Tuesday! In just 2 games!

Here are reviews of Tuesday's 2 games of madness: Man City v Monaco - AND - Leverkusen v Atleti

Round of 16 Matches:

1st Leg

-Tue Feb 21

Man City 5-3 Monaco

Leverkusen 2-4 Atletico

-Wed Feb 22

Sevilla 2-1 Leicester

Porto 0-2 Juventus

dN

USMNT U20s at the CONCACAF Championship and U20 World Cup qualifying

Into the win column beating Haiti. The second half was a runaway. First half was ugly.

Brooks Lennon had a hat trick including a Penalty Kick.

Here is an expert opinion on the game and USA team. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

Group B Matches:

-Sat Feb 18

USA 0-1 Panama

-Tue Feb 21

USA 4-1 Haiti at 4:30pm CT

-Fri Feb 24

USA v St Kitts + Nevis at 4:30pm CT

-Games broadcast on Univision networks.

Group B Standings:

6 Panama (+5)

3 USA (+2)

3 Haiti (+1)

0 St Kitts + Nevis (-8)

The Bird Is The Word
