It's Day 244 of 2016.

BIG NOTE: The USA Women will play an exhibition game in Minneapolis v Switzerland on Sun Oct 23 at US Bank Stadium.

dN

Lets start it off with a quick story from our friend Sasha:

"you know how we have the T-shirt cannon firing off shirts at baseball games and such?

well....during halftime of the game I was at, there was a pep squad walking around the pitch launching cans of coca cola into the crowd with an oversized sling shot. The cokes were flying around like missiles and the couple which were fired in our vicinity exploded upon impact. It was crazy"

dN

Since the San Jose Earthquakes were re-re-born in 2008 John Doyle has been the general manager. But not anymore. He was fired on Monday and replaced on an interim basis by Chris Leitch. Doyle was known for his conservative approach, and it appears as though head coach Dominic Kinnear has demand that the club release the hounds. Lets see what happens now.

A report on the firing. By Martin Gallegos of the San Jose Mercury News.

dN

LA Galaxy and USMNT forward Gyasi Zardes has suffered a broken foot and will miss the rest of the 2016 season, and World Cup qualifiers in Sep. The club hopes he can return in November for playoff games.

Speaking of LA - bad boy/villain Nigel de Jong is GONE! It was a short lived spell in MLS. Sold today to Galatasaray in Turkey.

At least 1 person is not going to miss de Jong:

Lets all take a moment to appreciate Nigel de Jong's time in MLS.....ok thats long enough.

— Merritt Paulson (@MerrittPaulson) August 31, 2016

dN

Why is year 3 a success for Pablo Mastroeni and Colorado Rapids when seasons 1 and 2 were so awful? The coach speaks. By Brian Kay of the Guardian.

dN

On one hand MLS is very proud of the fact that 59 of its players have been called into national teams for international matches this week and next. On the other hand 10 of the leagues teams have chosen to still play games without those very best players. Are tickets to all games equally discounted?

MLS Week 26 schedule:

-Sat Sep 3

Vancouver v NYRB

New England v Colorado

Chicago v Philadelphia

Dallas v Portland

LA v Columbus

dN

Did you all see the goal Lance Laing scored for Minnesota United last Saturday? Yeah, it was spectacular. [VIDEO]

dN

Things have gotten even weirder at Rayo OKC. We know there was a full management shake up a couple weeks ago, and now one of the minor owners have literally taken his turf and gone home!

This guy had paid for the playing surface out of his own pocket and as finances have gotten increasingly desperate he went to the stadium after hours and took out half the turf because he feared his partners were preparing to sell the field.

dN

As for the league itself, the broadcasts of games are getting harder and harder to find:

beIN is going to be showing college football in prime time on Saturday nights instead of NASL games starting this weekend.

One World Sports has been dropped from Dish Network, their #1 carrier.

dN

Minnesota plays their third game in a row in the state of Florida. So far they have a 0-0 draw at Jacksonville and a 1-1 draw at Miami.

3 points tonight would be huge for the Loons.

A preview of tonight's Minnesota game at Fort Lauderdale from a Florida perspective. By Pedro Heizer of the Sun Sentinel.

dN

NASL Week 20 - midweek

-Wed Aug 31

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v Minnesota United - 6pm CT - not shown locally on My29, sorry about that. Only on CBS Sports Network. Oh, and they don't stream games online either.

New York Cosmos v Indy Eleven

dN

NASL Standings (32 game schedule)

41 NYC (21 GP)

40 E (20 GP)

38 IE (21 GP)

32 MU (21 GP)

-----

27 TBR (21 GP)

26 FLS (20 GP)

26 CRH (20 GP)

25 ROKC (21 GP)

23 M (20 GP)

20 OF (21 GP)

17 JA (21 GP)

8 PR (11 GP) - did not start until Summer/Fall Season

dN

The USMNT landed in St Vincent this morning and began training right away.

USMNT with 2 huge games this week and next:

-Fri Sep 2

St Vincent + The Grenadines v USA - WORLD CUP QUALIFYING - Arnos Vale Stadium, St. Vincent - 2:30pm CT on beIN SPORTS

-Tue Sep 6

USA v Trinidad + Tobago - WORLD CUP QUALIFYING - EverBank Field, Jacksonville FL - 7:00pm CT on FS1 + Univision

The USA has a very clear cut goal for these two upcoming games. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

Jurgen Klinsmann talks about demanding more from his young players and those coming up through the ranks. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

JK also commented on "the England job".

Difficulties lie ahead for the team though:

Michael Bradley is suspended for StV+G game

-Michael Orozco is suspended for StV+G game

Clint Dempsey out with heart issue

Jermaine Jones out injured (dropped from roster today)

Gyasi Zardes out injured

John Brooks out injured

Jozy Altidore has been named captain.

With both a USA win and a TnT win on Friday both team would advance to the Hex.

USA Roster:

G: Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough, Ethan Horvath - Molde, Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Steve Birnbaum - DC United, Geoff Cameron - Stoke City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach, Michael Orozco - Tijuana, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Darlington Nagbe - Portland Timbers, Christian Pulisic - Dortmund, Caleb Stanko - Vaduz, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Rubio Rubin - Utrecht, Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes, Bobby Wood - Hamburger

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying Semifinal Round:

The top 2 teams from each group will advance to Final Round - the Hexagonal.

With 2 games remaining only 1 team has advanced (Mexico) and only 1 team has been eliminated (St Vincent.)

Group A

12A Mexico (+10 GD)

4 Honduras (-1 GD)

4 Canada (-4 GD)

2 El Salvador (-5 GD)

Group B

10 Costa Rica (+5 GD)

7 Panama (+2 GD)

4 Jamaica (-4 GD)

1 Haiti (-3 GD)

Group C

10 Trinidad + Tobago (+8 GD)

7 United States of America (+7 GD)

6 Guatemala (+1 GD)

0E Saint Vincent + the Grenadines (-16 GD)

Match schedule:

-Fri Sep 2

Hon v Can

El S v Mex

Pan v Jam

Hai v CR

TnT v Guat

St V v USA

-Tue Sep 6

Mex v Hon

Can v El S

CR v Pan

Jam v Hai

USA v TnT

Guat v St V

dN

Matt Cardone of San Antonio named USL Player Of The Week

Patrick Mullins of DC United named MLS Player Of The Week

Andres Flores of New York Cosmos named NASL Player Of The Week

Manon Melis of Seattle Reign named NWSL Player Of The Week

dN

A new documentary on one of the world's all time great musicians John Coltrane is coming out. Nice. From Shadow And Act.

dN

On Sunday in Kuwait City the temperature was 129 degrees!

dN

Miguel Ibarra may get himself another chance at Leon - head coach Luis Tena has been fired.

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

Previous - Sat Aug 27 D 0-0 at Red Star

Up Next - Sat Sep 10 v Valenciennes

dN

(Recap from last weekend)

Results in the Bundesliga season openers for the 9 Americans:

-Fri Aug 26

(Julian Green) Bayern Munich 6-0 Werder Bremen (Aron Johannsson)

Johannsson got the start and went 64 minutes for Werder Bremen today!! Fantastic. He has been out of action since last September with a hip injury.

Green on the bench for Bayern.

-Sat Aug 27

(Christian Pulisic) Dortmund 2-1 Mainz

Pulisic was in uniform on the bench but did not play.

(Bobby Wood) Hamburger 1-1 Ingolstadt (Alredo Morales)

Wood went the full 90 and scored a great goal.

Morales started and played 81 minutes.

(Timmy Chandler) Eintracht Frankfurt 1-0 Schalke

Chandler came on as a sub in the 55th minute.

(Fabian Johnson) Monchengladbach 2-1 Leverkusen

Johnson subbed on in the 61st minute.

-Sun Aug 28

(John Brooks) Hertha v Freiburg

Brooks went the distance.

Hoffenheim 2-2 RB Leipzig (Terrence Boyd)

Boyd is still recovering from injury and was not on the roster.

dN

The numbskull who tried to turn the LA Dodgers baseball team into complete garbage, Frank McCourt, has just bought legendary French team Olympique Marseille. Dear People of Marseille, good luck to you, yer gonna need it.

The Bird Is The Word
