It's Day 8 of 2018.

Barcelona just spent $142 Million dollars, (with incentives could go to $193M), on 25 year old Brazilian attacking midfielder Philippe Coutinho from Liverpool. Absurd by any standard. Huge congrats to Coutinho. Take your share of the money and run.

dN

Happy Birthday to:

David Bowie

Shirley Bassey

Elvis Presley

And:

Larry Storch

Soupy Sales

Stephen Hawking

Ray Misterio

dN

USMNT has invited 30 players into a training camp starting Thu Jan 11 that will end in a game on Sun Jan 28 v Bosnia + Herzegovina.

Christian Ramirez of Minnesota United gets his first ever call up. He is the only forward without prior experience at the international level.

Some words from Ramirez on receiving the invite. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Other first timers are: Alex Bono, Cody Cropper, Zack Steffen, Danny Acosta, Justen Glad, Nick Lima, Ike Opara, Tim Parker, Matt Polster, Russell Canouse, Marky Delgado, Marlon Hairston, Ian Harkes and Brooks Lennon.

All but 2 are on MLS rosters.

Full Roster:

G: Alex Bono - Toronto, Bill Hamid - Midtjylland, Cody Cropper - New England Revolution, Zack Steffen - Columbus Crew

D: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Nick Lima - San Jose Earthquakes, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Ike Opara - Sporting Kansas City, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps, Matt Polster - Chicago Fire, Brandon Vincent - Chicago Fire, Walker Zimmerman - Los Angeles

M: Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Paul Arriola - DC United, Russell Canouse - DC United, Marky Delgado - Toronto, Marlon Hairston - Colorado Rapids, Ian Harkes - DC United, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Wil Trapp - Columbus Crew, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Orlando City, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Christian Ramirez - Minnesota United, Rubio Rubin - no club, CJ Sapong - Philadelphia Union

This team could really use a few more veterans to lead the way.

dN

The US Soccer technical staff screwed this one up pretty bad. Gonzalez has been on US youth teams for 5 years and at this critical junction he was stolen from right under their noses:

According to @UnivisionSports, Jonathan Gonzalez has decided to play for Mexico and will be called up to the Jan. 31st friendly. He must file a one-time switch with #FIFA. https://t.co/S3XFh4YHYY

— Taylor Twellman (@TaylorTwellman) January 8, 2018

dN

MEXICO - LIGA MX

The new season has begun:

Champions Tigres open with a loss.

Runners-up Monterrey giving up a tying goal in the dying seconds at home.

Other favorites America with a road win.

Week 1 Results:

-Fri Jan 5

Puebla 2-1 Tigres

Atlas 1-2 Leon

-Sat Jan 6

Cruz Azul 0-0 Tijuana

Monterrey 1-1 Morelia

Pachuca 2-3 Pumas

Necaxa 0-0 Veracruz

-Sun Jan 7

Toluca 1-1 Guadalajara

Querataro 0-1 America

Santos Laguna 4-2 Lobos BUAP

dN

LOS LOONS

Brandon Allen has signed with USL team Bethlehem Steel FC (owned by Philadelphia Union.)

14 days until preseason begins.

Key dates ahead:

Draftable Player Combine on Thu Jan 11 - Wed Jan 17 in Orlando

College Draft on Fri Jan 19 in Philadelphia

dN

MLS

After 3 years NYCFC says they are turning their ship towards a youth movement. By Kyle Schnitzer for the NY Post.

Pirlo leaving probably cut their average roster age by 10 years.

DC United signed goalkeeper David Ousted from Vancouver Whitecaps.

dN

WE ARE ALL JUST KIDS

Thrilling! Jozy Altidore visited a youth soccer club in Cayman Islands and imparted his wisdom, and even taking part in a scrimmage! Its a great feeling as a kid when someone so elite shows up at your practice session. By Mark Muckenfuss for Cayman Compass.

dN

AMERICAN SOCCER

Amid all the rank negativity: More than 25 new expansion teams entering the top divisions of American soccer in 2018. Incredible growth amidst the chaos. By Nathan Reynolds for MLS Multipex.

dN

US SOCCER

An interview with Phil Wright who is Chairman of the Board of Directors of U.S. Club Soccer, one of 4 youth programs in the country. I enjoy reading all these different perspectives on the American soccer system. By Mike Woitalla for Soccer America.

dN

USMNT

A little update on the coaching staff for the January camp. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Eric Lichaj had the biggest performance of his life this weekend as he scored 2 goals, one a golazo, in leading Nottingham Forest to a 4-2 win over Arsenal in the FA Cup:

-

?? Where did THAT come from, Eric Lichaj?! https://t.co/uxEr55dJGU

— FOX Soccer (@FOXSoccer) January 7, 2018

dN

EUROPE

Two Teams Unbeaten in the 5 Big Leagues:

Manchester City 20-2-0

Barcelona 15-3-0

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S 5 TOP LEAGUES

Results news:

With another tie Real Madrid has fallen 16 points behind Barcelona, with 1 game in hand. 20 games left in the season.

Inter continues to drop, with another tie they go to 9 points out of a lead they once held. 4 games without a win.

And Roma lost.

Schedule/Results:

-Fri Jan 5

Fiorentina 1-1 Inter

-Sat Jan 6

Atletico Madrid 2-0 Getafe

Milan 1-0 Crotone

Napoli 2-0 Hellas Verona

Roma 1-2 Atalanta

Cagliari 0-1 Juventus

Valencia 2-1 Girona

-Sun Jan 7

Barcelona 3-0 Levante

Celta de Vigo 2-2 Real Madrid

The Bird Is The Word
