STARTERS

Jens Lehman answers his team who suspended him for attending Oktoberfest celebration: “That evening, I drank only half a Radler and then mineral water after that. I drove myself home later on. The visit to Oktoberfest was for a charity event which had long since been planned, but had not been agreed with the club.”

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Houston and Pachuca both took steps toward advancing with big wins on Tuesday night, while Saprissa stumbled even more by only getting a 1-1 in PUerto Rico. The Costa Rican powerhouse only has 4 points from 4 games.

dN

Group Stage

Matchday 4:

-Tue Sep 22

Puerto Rico Islanders 1-1 Saprissa - PRI goal by Josh Hansen. Sap goal by Kenall Watson.

Metapan 0-4 Pachuca - Pac goals by Ulises Mendivil(2), Edy German Brambila & Edgar Benítez.

Houston Dynamo 5-1 Arabe Unido - HD goals by Eddie Robinson, Cam Weaver, Corey Ashe & Stuart Holden(2). AU goal by Orlando Rodriguez.

-Wed Sep 23

Columbus Crew V Cruz Azul

Toluca V Jabloteh

Comunicaciones V W Connection

-Wed Sep 24

DC United V Marathon

UNAM Pumas V Real Espana

dN

Tonight it's the Crew who are desperate for payback after losing 5-0 to Cruz Azul in Mexico City. This should be a very good game.

dN

And Toluca can clinch a spot in the knock out stage with a win.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch on what a win could possibly do for the clubs coffers.

dN

Standings (with Games Played):

Group A

9 Pachuca(4 GP)

7 Arabe Unido(4 GP)

7 Houston Dynamo(4 GP)

0 Metapan(4 GP)

Group B

9 Toluca(3 GP)

6 Marathon(3 GP)

3 DC United(3 GP)

0 San Juan Jabloteh(3 GP)

Group C

7 Cruz Azul(3 GP)

6 Columbus Crew(3 GP)

4 Saprissa(4 GP)

2 Puerto Rico Islanders(4 GP)

Group D

7 UNAM Pumas(3 GP)

6 Comunicaciones(3 GP)

3 Real Espana(3 GP)

1 W Connection(3 GP)

MLS

Week 28

Matches & Scores

-Wed Sep 23

Colorado Rapids v San Jose Earthquakes - 8:30pm Central on Direct Kick

dN

The Philadelphia Daily News reports that the Union will open the league season next year with the very first game, at Seattle on March 25. No word yet on when Philly will play their first home game, seeing as their stadium will not be ready.

-In the past teams have just played a ton of road games until their place is finished. This has usually led to an ugly season, but if you don't get your act together and be ready for the season, then isn't that the price you should pay?

dN

Chicago Now with an article on Fire midfielder Peter Lowry who made a huge splash last weekend with 2 impressive goals.

-I have gotten a few emails about Lowry since I ask about him on Monday. It looks like he was a very very smart college player who didn't fit in last year and had to learn how to be a pro the hard way. Let's hope this is the start of something great for him, and us as fans.

dN

The Fan 590 radio in Toronto has an interview with TFC honcho Tom Anselmi. Download or listen here. (Heads up: Lots of hockey talk, and buffoonish soccer-bashing host.)

dN

Daniel Girard of the Toronto Star talks to TFC's newest player Julian De Guzman about what the team needs to do to make the playoffs.

-I know - get a real defense.

dN

Don Ruiz of the Tacoma New Tribune talks to Seattle GM Adrian Hanauer about stadium capacity for the 2010 season. Will it increase due to high demand?

dN

Andrew Hush of ESPN Soccernet with his weekly league news round up.

dN

The Denver Post on the Colorado Rapids push for a playoff spot. The team sits in 6th place with 5 games left to play.

-It's a nice thing to see the Post actually writing about the team.

MLS EXPANSION

The Oregonian with an update on stadium remodeling for Portland's entry into the league in 2011.

MLS EXHIBITION GAMES

El ChivaClasico

-Wed Sep 23

Chivas USA v Guadalajara Chivas (Mexico)

Venue: Rose Bowl - Pasadena CA

dN

Phil Collin of the Daily Breeze previews the game.

USL FIRST DIVISION

Season ending stats:

Top Goal Scorer – Charles Gbeke - Vancouver Whitecaps: 12

Top Assist Makers Leaders – Ricardo Sanchez - Minnesota Thunder and Wes Knight - Vancouver Whitecaps: 8

Goals Give Up Per Game: Dusty Hudock - Charleston Battery: 0.279

To me Hudock's number is simply astonishing. He only allowed 5 goals! But sadly for Charleston he blew out his knee last week and will not be guarding the net for the playoffs.

dN

For my Minnesota Thunder the top goal scorers this season were:

8 Melvin Tarley

7 Ricardo Sanchez

6 Marco Terminesi

5 Lawrence Olum

5 Brian Cvilikas

Captain and center midfielder Jeremiah Bass played in all 30 games!

dN

Thunder Supporters had a post-season party last night at the Sweetwater and gave out the follwoing awards:

-Nic Platter - Player of the Year (3rd consecutive)

-Lawrence Olum - Newcomer of the Year

-The Super Rookie - Jackass (Fan) of the Year

-Claude Duran - Buzz Lagos Lifetime Achievement Award

USA @ U20 WORLD CUP

Official team blog.

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Sep 26

USA v Germany - 9am Central on ESPN Classic

-Tue Sep 29

USA v Cameroon - 11:45am Central on ESPN2

-Fri Oct 2

USA v South Korea - 11:45am Central on ESPN2

U20 WORLD CUP

The Independent picks 10 players to watch at the tournament. No Americans make the list.

dN

FIFA.com's tournament news feed.

dN

Match schedule

The Opening Game!

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Sep 24

Egypt v Trinidad & Tobago - 12:45pm Central on ESPN360.com

See all the games live on ESPN2, ESPN Classic or ESPN360.com.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action

English League Cup Round 3 games:

-Tue Sep 22

Mike Grella - Leeds - came on as a sub in the 81st minute but they lost 0-1 at home against Liverpool.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played the full match but lost 3-1 at Bolton.

Germany DFB Pokal Second Round:

-Tue Sep 22

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the distance, picking up a Yellow Card in the final minute, but losing 0-1 at home to Duisburg.

David Yelldell - Koblenz - played the whole match as they won 4-2 at home over Energie Cottbus.

Netherlands Dutch Cup:

-Tue Sep 22

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - won 1-3 Omniworld.

dN

Coming Up

English League Cup Round 3 games:

-Wed Sep 23

Jozy Altidore - Hull City v Everton

Clint Dempsey - Fulham at Manchester City

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa v Cardiff City

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa v Cardiff City

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton at Manchester United

Tim Howard - Everton at Hull City

Eddie Johnson - Fulham at Manchester City

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa v Cardiff City

France Coupe de la Ligue Round of 32:

-Wed Sep 23

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes v Sochaux

Charlie Davies - Sochaux at Rennes

Germany DFB Pokal Second Round:

-Wed Sep 23

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich v Hertha Berlin

Luis Robles - Kaiserslautern v Bayer Leverkusen

Italy Serie A:

-Wed Sep 23

Oguchi Onyewu - Milan at Udinese

Scottish League Cup Round 3:

-Wed Sep 23

DaMarucus Beasley - Rangers at Queen of the South

ENDERS

Check this out! I don't know if you are a Zune person, I am a Creative guy myself, (I know most of you prol dig the Ipod) but the new line of Zune mp3 players is out and you can get them engraved with your fave MLS team logo! No other sports teams are available, just Major League Soccer. Wild.

(Thanks to the Digital Gopher for the heads up on this one.)
