It's Day 134 of 2016.

Zlatan Ibrahimovic is a free agent!

Dr. McGuire get out your checkbook and bring the fisherman to his natural home - the land of 10,000 lakes.

Humble till the end: (thanks Daniele)

My last game tomorrow at Parc des Princes. I came like a king, left like a legend pic.twitter.com/OpLL3wzKh0

— Zlatan Ibrahimović (@Ibra_official) May 13, 2016

He could fish in a different Minnesota lake every day for the next 32 years. Never repeating a single one.

dN

[UPDATED]

Brutally Bob Bradley + Le Havre came up very very very short in the battle for the final promotion spot in France's Ligue 2. His team HAC needed a win, a Metz loss, and then make up a goal differential of -7 to capture 3rd place.

-They got the win 5-0.

-And Metz lost 1-0.

-Thats the 3 pts but only 6 goals, but dammit they needed 7.

-The two teams end tied on Pts and GD, but the 2nd tie breaker was goals scored.

-And Metz had that one on their side: 54-52.

What a tough way to end a pretty good season.

dN

Lets check out what the election of Canadian Vitor Montagliani as the new president of CONCACAF really means. By Simon Evans of the Guardian.

dN

FIFA has named Fatma Samoura of Senegal its new Secretary General. Why is this important? Its a woman. That is a radical move for FIFA.

-Here is the press release of the announcement and a description of her background.

dN

Liga MX Clausura Laguilla Quarterfinals:

A couple of ties in both of last nights 1st Leg games gives the favorite tag to the higher seeds who will host 2nd leg games this weekend.

Omar Gonzalez + Jorge Villafana both played the full 90 for their respective clubs Pachuca + Santos.

1st Leg

-Thu May 12

Santos Laguna (7) 1-1 Pachuca (2)

Guadalajara (5) 0-0 America (4)

2nd Leg

-Sat May 14

Monterrey v Tigres (3-1)

Leon v Morelia (1-1)

-Sun May 15

Pachuca v Santos Laguna (1-1)

America v Guadalajara (0-0)

dN

A preview of this weekends NASL games. By Jake Nutting of Empire of Soccer.

dN

NASL Week 7

Sat May 14

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v Indy Eleven

Carolina RailHawks v Miami

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Rayo OKC

Minnesota United v Jacksonville Armada - 7pm CT on MY29 + beIN Sports.

-Sun May 15

Edmonton v New York Cosmos

-Bye: Ottawa Fury

dN

This article on Kansas City's struggles and inner turmoil could shed a little insight on why Benny Failhaber has been on the outs with the USMNT. From ESPNFC.

dN

What can Kei Kamara add to New England? By Kyle McCarthy of the Boston Herald.

dN

MLS Week 11

-Fri May 13

DC United v New York Red Bulls

-Sat May 14

Montreal Impact v Philadelphia Union - who had these two as tops in the East?

Toronto v Vancouver Whitecaps - a Canadian rivalry

Columbus Crew v Colorado Rapids - downward spiral v upward spiral

New England Revolution v Chicago Fire - its desperation time already for both

Houston Dynamo v Real Salt Lake

Dallas v Seattle Sounders - supposed to be two of the best

-Sun May 15

Sporting Kansas City v Orlando City - SKC needs a win very badly

Portland Timbers v New York City

dN

The only one of Europe's top leagues still without a champion on the last week:

La Liga

88 Barca (+80) - Sat May 14 at Granada

87 Real (+74) - Sat May 14 at Deportivo La Coruna

dN

Belated congrats to PSV Eindhoven on winning their 23rd Dutch Eredivisie championship last weekend.

The Bird Is The Word
