STARTERS

Tragedy: Bolton player Fabrice Muamba suffered cardiac arrest on Saturday during their game at Tottenham and remains in the hospital in critical condition. That is so damn sad. Everyone please take a moment to have a good thought for him and his family.

dN

We had a great time in both Kansas City and Omaha this past weekend. So I want to give a very special hello and thanks to everyone we ran into, and all you great du Nord readers who made a point to say Hi! I love talking to all of you. Well, almost all of you! Hahahahahahaha.

-KC, we will see you again in 2 weeks for the Olympic qualifiers!

dN

Leander Schaerlackens of ESPN does a Q & A with USA head coach Jurgen Klinsmann, and in the end answers the most important question on a lot of our minds right now - where does Landon Donovan stand with this team?

dN

The LA Galaxy announced an extension of their front of shirt sponsorship deal with Herbalife that will see them receive $4.4 Million per year for the next 10 years.

-You add that to the 10 year $50 Million they got from Time Warner for local TV rights and you can start to see where they are rolling in rivers of money!

dN

Why is the quality of the video highlights on the MLS site so poor? That is very confusing to me.

dN

The Athens derby between Panathinaikos and Olympiakos was called off in the 80th minute Saturday after violence tore through the stands, including fire bombs being thrown.

-How come some people just seem to get dumber and dumber? You know the vast majority of people who are fans of these two teams are normal fanaticos like you and me. Of course things are far from normal in Greece these days, but where do the idiots get off in ruining it for everyone?

NOTICE

Sign up today for MLS Fantasy Soccer Manager, and then become a member of the du Nord Futbol league using this code: 3815-897

117 teams in our league so far. Lets go for 150! Come On!

FC Pancetta - managed by Kip Riske is in 1st Place!

USA U23/OLYMPIC TEAM

Training for Olympic qualifying is underway in Nashville.

dN

Josh Gatt has left the team when his club Molde suffered a rash of injuries.

Another player will be added to the roster by Tuesday when the roster must be set.

dN

Friendly

Match & Score:

-Sun Mar 18

USA 3-0 - Atlanta Silverbacks - USA goals by Brek Shea(2) & Michael Stephens.

dN

Specialized US Soccer qualifying web page.

Plus lots more:

-Interview with Freddy Adu.

-Training tactics - coach Caleb Porter on defense.

-Top five books by Kofi Sarkodie.

US Soccer gives us 3 videos:

-Friendly against Atlanta

-Coach Caleb Porter speaks

-Training

dN

USA Roster

G:

Bill Hamid - DC United

Sean Johnson - Chicago Fire

D:

Josh Gatt - Molde

Perry Kitchen - DC United

Ike Opara - San Jose Earthquakes

Kofi Sarkodie - Houston Dynamo

Zarek Valentin - Montreal Impact

Jorge Villafana - Chivas USA

M:

Freddy Adu - Philadelphia Union

Joe Corona - Tijuana

Mix Diskerud - Gent

Jared Jeffrey - Mainz

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Michael Stephens - LA Galaxy

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Terrence Boyd - Dortmund

Teal Bunbury - Sporting Kansas City

Joe Gyau - Hoffenheim

Brek Shea - FC Dallas

Tony Taylor - Estoril

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 22

USA v Cuba - 8pm CT

-Sat Mar 24

USA v Canada - 6pm CT

-Mon Mar 26

USA v El Salvador - 8pm CT

All 3 to be played at LP Field in Nashville TN and can be seen on Universal Sports Network (DirecTV channel 625).

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Quarterfinals

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Mar 27

APOEL v Real Madrid

Benfica v Chelsea

-Wed Mar 28

Marseille v Bayern Munich

AC Milan v Barcelona

2nd Leg

-Tue Apr 3

Barcelona v AC Milan

Bayern Munich v Marseille

-Wed Apr 4

Chelsea v Benfica

Real Madrid v APOEL

2011-12 CONCACACHAMPIONS

Quarterfinals - 2nd Leg

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 15

UNAM Pumas 8-0 Isidro Metapan - UP advances 9-2 on aggregate.

dN

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Wed Mar 28

Toronto v Santos Laguna - 7pm CT

Monterrey v UNAM Pumas - 9pm CT

2nd Leg

-Wed Apr 4

Santos Laguna v Toronto - 7pm CT

UNAM Pumas v Monterrey - 9pm CT

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 17

Fenerbahce 2-2 Galatasaray - the always intense Istanbul derby ends in a tie.

-Sun Mar 18

Udinese 2-2 Napoli - at tie game does nothing for #5 & #4.

-Wed Mar 21

Manchester City v Chelsea - neither team can afford a slip up of any kind

QUESTION OF THE DAY

I am a little confused by something. When you watch a Dallas home game you see draped in front of the stands all down the east side of the stadium are these banners that I assume are supposed to be made by the supporters (do to the casual nature of the language used on them) but they looked 100% professionally made and hung. My question is this - did the team make these themselves? And if so do they really think that we the viewing public will not look at them and say, "those look fake and cheesy"?

HMMMMM, VERY INTERESTING

Disney has announced a joint venture with Italian club Roma which has been named the "official team" of the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in Lake Buena Vista FL. The team will have a year round presence at the facility and train their during their winter break next December/January.

OOF

Generally speaking I don't talk about referees much, especially in MLS, but even I can admit that when I turn on the TV or arrive at the park and see Baldomero Toledo (by far the worst of the bunch), Abbey Okulaja, Michael Kennedy or Terry Vaughn walk out on to that field I cringe knowing that some bizarre calls are going to be made, while at the same time some brutal fouls will be completely ignored.

I don't remark on referees often because I think the vast majority of people are way too harsh on them. If we held players to the same standards as refs there would be none left to play the game. And don't even get me going on holding a few of those people to those standards at their work place.

MLS MATCHES & SCORES

WEEK 2

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 17

Montreal Impact 1-1 Chicago Fire SC - MI goal by Davy Arnaud. CF goal by Dominic Oduro.

Venue: Olympic Stadium

Attendance: 58,912 (football - 66,308)

San Jose Earthquakes 0-1 Houston Dynamo - HD goal by Brad Davis(PK).

Venue: AT&T Park

Attendance: 21,816 (*baseball - 41,915)

FC Dallas 1-1 Portland Timbers - FCD goal by Blas Perez. PT goal by Darlington Nagbe.

Venue: FC Dallas Stadium

Attendance: 12,203 (20,500)

Sporting Kansas City 3-0 New England Revolution - SKC goals by Graham Zusi, Kei Kamara & CJ Sapong.

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park

Attendance: 19,777 (18,467)

Real Salt Lake 2-0 New York Red Bulls - RSL goals by Fabian Espindola & Luis Gil.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium

Attendance: 16,738 (20,213)

Seattle Sounders FC 3-1 Toronto FC - SS goals all by David Estrada. TFC goal by Ryan Johnson.

Venue: CenturyLink Field

Attendance: 38,709 (38,500)

CD Chivas USA 0-1 Vancouver Whitecaps FC - VW goal by Jay DeMerit.

Venue: The Home Depot Center

Attendance: 7,723 (18,800)

-Sun Mar 18

Philadelphia Union 1-2 Colorado Rapids - PU goal by Lionard Pajoy. CR goals by Jaime Castrillon & Tony Cascio.

Venue: PPL Park

Attendance: 19,074 (18,500)

LA Galaxy 3-1 DC United - LAG goals by Robbie Keane(2) & Marcelo Sarvas. DCU goal by Nick DeLeon.

Venue: The Home Depot Center

Attendance: 18,466 (27,000)

Bye: Columbus Crew

MLS MATCH NOTES

EJECTIONS:

Stephen McCarthy - New England - Red Card

Jeff Larentowicz - Colorado - 2 Yellow Cards

dN

The good and bad in attendance:

BAD

-What happened to the attendance this weekend at the Home Depot Center??? Chivas, brutal! And the Galaxy had one of their lowest attendances ever!

I read that the weather was quite unpleasant in LA this weekend, but those numbers just mean that these two teams are not selling very many advance tickets.

The Galaxy should have sold out their whole season in advance with all their star players and coming off a championship.

And for Chivas those numbers are just abysmal. Time to sell this team to owners in another market who want to make something really happen.

-Then there is RSL? 3300 unsold tickets. Really? For the season opener?

-Dallas fell on their face with 8000 empty seats after last weekends fake sold out game. Sad.

GOOD

-On the flip side San Jose played at the Giants baseball park in SF to over 21,000.

-KC was 1300 OVER capacity!

-Philly was 500 OVER cap!

-Seattle sold out over 38k!

-And then there's Montreal's MLS debut with nearly 59,000! Wow!

dN

Easily the most outstanding performance of the weekend came from David Estrada of Sounders who worked his ass off for three goals and a big win for Seattle over Toronto!

And later in the day David Estrada of Seattle was officially named the MLS Player of the Week.

dN

The Toronto defense was every bit as terrible as they have been for the whole previous 5 seasons. What is going on? How can they not get this sorted out?

Vancouver won its first-ever MLS road game.

A hugely troubling scenario for LA this week is that on the only goal they gave up Sean Franklin was again ABUSED by the left winger who scored. That has happened over and over again already this season.

Is it just me or in the first two games has Dallas keeper Kevin Hartman looked a little old and slow at times?

-Actually here is a perfect example of what I mean, a very poor clearance from Hartman leads right to a Portland goal. Oh hell, lets let the head coach of Portland call it for us via video. Well, that not totally fair to blame Hartman completely for that as his defense killed him on that one too!

I cracked up laughing at the Canadian announcer who referred to Chivas jersey's as "Sweaters." You can take the boy out of Canada but you can't take the Canadian out of the boy!

-But its not funny though when you have hockey announcers who don't really know what they are talking about - referring to the Vancouver back up Brad Knighton as a "rookie" then back tracking a little recognizing he had played in Philly in 2010 but not knowing he had also played in New England in 07-09. He also played in over 30 second division games in the intervening years too. You don't call a guy making his 51st professional appearance a rookie. Very poor.

Lets talk about New England - oh boy! They are bad. Even before they had a player sent off they looked brutal in Kansas City. They look sooooooooooooooo slow. And they need help up top real real bad. Saer Sene got his first start and he looked like he may have never played the game before - at any level. They do have a few good players though, so lets see what happens over the next month or so before we completely bury them.

Philly keeper Zac MacMath drifted into Chris Seitz territory this week with a gaff for the second game in a row that cost his team a goal. Oof.

The Rooster was part of Salt Lake's second goal!

Its always great watching DDR going for goal from midfield, and this time he only missed beating Josh Saunders by a few feet.

dN

Video of the six great goals of the week:

-Ryan Johnson! Huge. Cool and calm, curling to the far post from 19 yards out!

-David Estrada's #3 was like the first two boiled down, with awesome team work and big effort.

-A classic diving header from Jay DeMerit.

-A good goal by Fab Espindola (nutmeg!), but more memorable for the horrific NYRB defending.

-A bomb from DC rookie Nick DeLeon in a losing effort.

-But my favorite moment of the weekend was at the game I attended and it happened post-goal, after Kei Kamara scored on a rebound he grabbed up a couple of Leprechaun hats and he & CJ Sapong did a very bithcin' jig! Top notch!

MLS STANDINGS

EAST

6 Sporting Kansas City (+4)

6 Houston Dynamo (+2)

1 Chicago Fire SC (0)

1 Montreal Impact (-2)

0 Toronto (-2)

0 Columbus Crew (-2)

0 Philadelphia Union (-3)

0 DC United (-3)

0 New York Red Bulls (-3)

0 New England (-4)

WEST

6 Real Salt Lake (+4)

6 Colorado Rapids (+3)

6 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (+3)

4 Portland Timbers (+2)

4 FC Dallas (+1)

3 Seattle Sounders FC (+2)

3 LA Galaxy (0)

3 San Jose Earthquakes (0)

0 CD Chivas USA (-2)

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

Steve Davis of NBC Sports breaks down the round into three segments: PART 1 - PART 2 - PART 3.

-I have no idea why three part, maybe Davis likes Snack Size Snickers?

dN

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with his Monday review, featuring a look at KC!

dN

Leander Schaerlaeckens of ESPN with five things we learned this weekend.

dN

Graham Parker & Joe Prince-Wright with 5 things we learned in week two.

dN

Player Transactions

New York has signed 25 year old American free agent attacking midfielder Ryan Maduro.

dN

Kansas City has announced the signing of Supplemental Draft pick left fullback Shawn Singh.

dN

DC UNITED

Steven Goff of the Post tries to make sense of what he saw from DCU in another bad performance.

PHILADELPHIA UNION

John Smallwood of the Daily News informs us as to why captain Danny Califf was surprisingly left out of the first 11 - he had off season knee surgery that none of us had heard about.

-But after the game Califf said his knee is fine and he has no idea why he didn't play.

dN

Marc Narducci of the Inquirer sees a team in trouble.

MLS/USA RELATED RUMORS

Just what the Red Bulls need most in their dysfunctional turnip truck this summer? Michael Ballack! I have a feeling they are going to be smarter than this. And I am still picking them to win the East.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

Paul Kennedy of Soccer America gives us a review of soccer business from the past week or so.

-Many things already covered here at du Nord but a few new items as well.

MINNESOTA STARS FC

3 preseason games were played over the past weekend:

-Fri Mar 16

Hastings College 1-2 MN Stars FC - Stars goals by Devin Del Do & Shawn Chin.

Venue: Lloyd Wilson Field - Hastings NE

-Sun Mar 18

Creighton Univ 2-2 MN Stars FC - Stars goals both by Amani Walker.

Venue: Omaha South Magnet HS Athletic Park at 23rd & L - Omaha NE

Univ Nebraska-Omaha 1-2 MN Stars FC - Stars goals by Marco di Bacarri & Kevin Venegas.

Venue: Mavericks Field - Univ Neb-Omaha

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

A true nightmare of a game for Alfredo Morales of Hertha as he came on as a sub at half time against Bayern and fouled Franck Ribery for TWO penalties! They lost 0-6!

dN

Jermaine Jones finally ended his 8 game suspension and started for Schalke.

dN

Clarence Goodson scored the game winning goal after being told in the press just a week ago that he was the reason the team was losing.

dN

All 4 Americans advanced to the Quarterfinals of the Europa League, and none of them got paired against each other!

-Jozy Altidore and AZ Alkmaar, Steve Cherundolo and Hannover, Jermaine Jones and Schalke, and Oguchi Onyewu(OUT INJURED) and Sporting CP.

-Round begins Thu Mar 29

dN

Game Action:

BELGIUM - Pro League

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - started and played 82 min as they tied 2-2 at Sint Truiden.

DENMARK - Superliga

Clarence Goodson - Brondy - went the full 90 scoring a goal as they win 1-2 at Nordsjaelland.

Conor O'Brien - SonderjyskE - came on as a sub in the 82nd min but lost 2-4 v Silkeborg.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - played the whole game but lost 1-2 v Brondby.

Chris Rolfe - Aalborg - came on as a sub in the 71st min as they tied 1-1 at Koge.

ENGLAND - FA Cup

Marcus Hahnemann - Everton - on the bench as they tied 1-1 v Sunderland.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance as they drew 1-1 v Sunderland.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - played the whole game but lost 0-3 v Swansea.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - went the full 90 getting a yellow card and losing 1-0 at Newcastle.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Bury - started and went 58 min as they lost 1-4 v Wycombe.

Anton Peterlin - Wallsall - came on as a sub in the 64th min but lost 2-1 at Yeovil.

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - played the entire game as they tied 1-1 at Bournemouth.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Timmy Chandler - Nurnberg - started and played 66 minutes as they lost 1-3 v Bremen.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - played the full 90 as they won 4-1 v Koln.

Fabian Johnson - Hoffenheim - went the distance but lost 1-2 v Stuttgart.

Jermaine Jones - Schalke - played the entire match as they won 1-4 at Kaiserslautern.

Alfredo Morales - Hertha Berlin - came on as a sub at half time getting a yellow card as they lost 0-6 v Bayern.

Daniel Williams - Hoffenheim - played the entire match but lost 1-2 v Stuttgart.

Andrew Wooten - Kaiserslautern - came off the bench in the 62nd min but lost 1-4 v Schalke.

David Yelldell - Bayer Leverkusen - on the bench as they lost 1-2 v Gladbach.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Matt Taylor - Paderborn - came on as a sub in the 67th min but lost 4-0 at Ingolstadt.

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich - on the bench as they lost 1-4 v Greuther Furth.

ISRAEL - Ligat Al

Bryan Gerzicich - Hapoel Ironi Kiryat Shmona - went the full 90 getting a yellow card as they tied 2-2 at Hapoel Tel Aviv.

Leo Krupnik - Maccabi Netanya - went the full 90 as they won 3-0 v Maccabi Tel Aviv.

ITALY - Serie A

Michael Bradley - Chievo Verona - went the distance as they tied 2-2 at Bologna.

NETHERLANDS - Eredivisie

Jozy Altidore - AZ Alkmaar - started and played 76 min of a scoreless game v NAC Breda.

PORTUGAL - Primeira Liga

Alex Zahavi - Vitoria Setubal - on the bench as they tied 1-1 v Maritimo.

PORTUGAL - Liga de Honra

Caleb Patterson-Sewell - Atletico CP - went the distance but lost 2-0 at Sporting Covilha.

RUSSIA - Premier Division

Yevgeni Starikov - Tom' Tomsk -

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Alejandro Bedoya - Rangers - started and went 83 min but lost 2-1 at Dundee United.

Mo Edu - Rangers - went the full 90 losing 2-1 at Dundee United.

dN

Coming Up:

BELGIUM - Pro League

Mikkel Diskerud - Gent - Wed Mar 21 at Genk

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - Wed Mar 21 v Zulte Waregem

ENGLAND - Premier League

Brad Friedel - Tottenham - Wed Mar 21 v Stoke

Marcus Hahnemann - Everton - Wed Mar 21 v Arsenal

Tim Howard - Everton - Wed Mar 21 v Arsenal

ENGLAND - Championship League

Conor Doyle - Derby County - Tue Mar 20 at Brighton & Hove

Robbie Findley - Nottingham Forest - Tue Mar 20 at Leeds

Robbie Rogers - Leeds - Tue Mar 20 v Nottingham Forrest

Jonathan Spector - Birmingham - Tue Mar 20 at Portsmouth

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Bury - Tue Mar 20 v Scunthorpe

Anton Peterlin - Wallsall - Tue Mar 20 at Sheffield Wednesday

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - Tue Mar 20 v Preston

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Herculez Gomez got a rest as his Santos Laguna team won again.

dN

Game Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

DaMarcus Beasley - Puebla - played the entire game but lost 0-1 v San Luis.

Edgar Castillo - Tijuana - played the full match but lost 1-0 at Tigres.

Michael Orozco Fiscal - San Luis - went the distance getting a yellow card as they won 0-1 at Puebla.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - started and went 64 min as they won 3-2 v Atlante.

ENGLAND

Ian McCourt, Evan Fanning & James Riach of the Guardian with five things we learned from the FA Cup and Premier League this weekend.

dN

FA Cup - Quarterfinals

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 17

Everton 1-1 Sunderland - replay on Tue Mar 27

Tottenham v Bolton - GAME SUSPENDED - no rescheduled date yet

-Sun Mar 18

Chelsea 5-2 Leicester

Liverpool 2-1 Stoke

Semifinals

-Sat Apr 14

Totteham/Bolton v Chelsea

Liverpool v Everton/Sunderland

SPAIN

After another loss Saturday Villarreal fired head coach Jose Molina and replaced him with Miguel Angel Lotina. They are currently in 17th place and hanging on by their fingernails above the relegation zone.

-Lotina last coached Deportivo La Coruna in 2010-11 in the 2nd division.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on the disastrous season for Villarreal, now on their 3rd coach of the season, and the rest of the round in La Liga.

FRANCE

Coupe De France - Quarterfinals

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 20

Quevilly v Marseille

-Wed Mar 21

Valenciennes v Rennes

Gazelec Ajaccio v Montepellier

PSG v Lyon

GERMANY

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian writes about Bayern Munich storming to 20 goals in their past 3 games, and several remarkable storylines from the past weekend in the Bundesliga.

ITALY

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian continues his Anti-Inter crusade writing that owner Mossimo Moratti no longer can handle Serie A, and reviews the rest of the round in Serie A.

dN

Coppa Italia - Semifinal

2nd Leg (with 1st Leg score included)

-Tue Mar 20

Juventus v Milan (2-1)

-Wed Mar 21

Napoli v Siena (1-2)

SCOTLAND

League Cup - Final

Things just keep getting weirder in Scotland as Celtic LOST the League Cup. Who besides Rangers even challenges except on extremely off days?

Huge congrats to Kilmarnock! This feels historic to me.

Match & Score:

-Sun Mar 18

Celtic 0-1 Kilmarnock

EUROPE

NETHERLANDS

KNVB Beker - Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Mar 21

Heerenveen v PSV

-Thu Mar 22

AZ v Heracles

dN

Relegation - the race to the bottom across Europe's top 5 leagues

Serie A (28 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

32 Siena

32 Fiorentina

31 Parma

-----

26 Lecce

23 Novara

17 Cesena

Premier League (29 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

25 Blackburn (28GP)

23 Bolton (28GP)

-----

22 Queens Park Rangers (28GP)

22 Wigan

22 Wolverhampton

Ligue 1 (28 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

30 Brest

30 Nancy

30 Dijon

30 Ajaccio

29 Caen

-----

27 Nice

27 Sochaux

24 Auxerre

La Liga (27 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

31 Granada

30 Real Betis

27 Villarreal

-----

24 Racing Santander (26GP)

24 Sporting Gijon

19 Real Zaragoza

Bundesliga (26 of 34 played)

-bottom 2 relegated - then - 3rd from bottom play 2.Bundes 3rd from top in 2 legs

28 Koln

27 Hamburg

26 Augsburg

-----

25 Freiburg

-----

23 Hertha

20 Kaiserslautern

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Round of 16 - 2nd Leg

Matches & Scores: (1st Leg scores included)

-Thu Mar 15

Olympiacos 1-2 Metalist - Met adv 2-1

Manchester City 3-2 Sporting CP - SPC adv on away goals tie breaker

Schalke 4-1 Twente - Sch adv 4-2

Hannover 4-0 Standard Liege - Han adv 6-2

PSV Eindhoven 1-1 Valencia - Val ad 5-3

Udinese 2-1 AZ Alkmaar - AZ adv 3-2

Besiktas 0-3 Atletico Madrid - AM adv 6-1

Athletic Bilbao 2-1 Manchester United AB adv 5-3

dN

Man City, Man U, Olympiakos, Twente, Standard, PSV, Udinese and Besiktas were eliminated.

dN

The next round will be played on Mar 29 and Apr 5.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Neymar, Ganso & Borges led Santos to another impressive win, this one on the road, while Ronaldinho and Co got booed at home for letting Olimpia tie them.

A big week ahead that could see some teams fate sealed in their round 4 games.

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 15

Juan Aurich 1-3 Santos - JA goal by Luis Tejada. San goal by J Fucile, Paulo Henrique Ganso & Borges.

Flamengo 3-3 Olimpia - Fla goals by Dario Botinelli, Ronaldinho(PK) & Luiz Antonio. Oli goal by Pablo Zeballos, Luis Caballero & Vladimir Marin.

-Tue Mar 20

Emelec v Lanus

Bolivar v Junior

-Wed Mar 21

The Strongest v Internacional

Corinthians v Cruz Azul

Vasco da Gama v Libertad

Boca Juniors v Arsenal

-Thu Mar 22

Velez Sarsfield v Deportivo Quito

Santos v Juan Aurich

Atletico Nacional v Godoy Cruz

dN

Standings

Group 1

6 Internacional (+5)

6 Santos (+3)

6 The Strongest (-3)

0 Juan Aurich (-5)

Group 2

5 Flamengo (+1)

4 Lanus (0)

4 Olimpia (0)

3 Emelec (-1)

Group 3

7 Union Espanola (+5)

4 Bolivar (-1)

3 Universidad Catholica (0)

1 Junior (-2)

Group 4

9 Fluminense (+3)

4 Boca Juniors (0)

3 Arsenal (+1)

1 Zamora (-4)

Group 5

7 Libertad (+4)

4 Vasco Da Gama (0)

3 Nacional (-1)

3 Alianza Lima (-3)

Group 6

7 Cruz Azul (+5)

5 Corintians (+2)

3 Nacional Asuncion (-2)

1 Deportivo Tachira (-5)

Group 7

6 Velez Sarsfield (+3)

4 Deportivo Quito (+1)

4 Guadalajara (-2)

3 Defensor Sporting (-2)

Group 8

7 Atletico Nacional (+6)

4 Universidad Chile (+2)

4 Godoy Cruz (-3)

1 Penarol (-5)

ASIA

Asian Champions League - Group Stage - Matchday 2

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 20

Tokyo v Ulsan

Adelaide United v Gamba Osaka

Pohang Steelers v Bunyodkor

Beijing Guoan v Brisbane Roar

Pakhtakor v Bani Yas

Al Jazira v Al Rayyan

Esteghlal v Nasaf

Al Arabi v Al Ittihad

-Wed Mar 21

Central Coast v Nagoya Grampus

Seongnam v Tianjin Teda

Kashiwa Reysol v Jeonbuk Motors

Guangzhou Ever v Buriram United

Persepolis v Al Shabab

Al Gharafa v Al Hilal

Al Nasr v Lekhwiya

Al Ahli v Sepahan

The next round is on Apr 3/4

Standings etc.
