It's Day 112 of 2016.

He sang like Smokie Robinson. He played guitar like Jimi Hendrix. He danced like James Brown. He wrote songs like no one else.

RIP Prince.

Live in the Winter of 1982 from Passaic NJ.

I saw Prince play for the first time about 2 months after this video was shot, on the same tour, doing a very similar set, in Minneapolis. I was blown away. This is great stuff.

I mean, did you ever see this video where he blows Tom Petty, Steve Winwood, Jeff Lynne and guys like that out of the water. With ease!

Prince: "Can you make it rain harder?" [VIDEO]

One of the funniest Prince stories. [VIDEO] Told by Kevin Smith!

On Prince and Minneapolis By Dave Zirin for The Nation.

"Everyone in the Twin Cities had a story about Prince."

Question once asked of Eric Clapton: "What's it feel like to be the world's best guitarist?"

EC:"I don't know. Ask Prince"

dN

One way to cure a dramatic slide off the top?!?! Barcelona goes to Deportivo La Coruna and wins 0-8! 4 goals for Luis Suarez.

But Atleti won to stay tied at the top on points and Real won to stay 1 pt off the lead.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League Final:

1st Leg

-Wed Apr 20

UANL Tigres 0-2 Club America - Ame goals by Dario Benedetto + Osvaldo Martinez.

Ventura Alvarado went 90 minutes at right fullback for America in the win.

Jose Torres started and played 70 minutes in central midfield for Tigres in the loss.

2nd Leg

-Wed Apr 27

Club America v UANL Tigres - 8:30pm CT on Univision Deportes + UniMas

dN

Having a couple weeks to dig deeper into the USWNT pay disparity issue reveals lots of details, some answers as to why differences exist, but few clear pathes to settling things. By Andrew Das of the New York Times.

One thing that I get from this and the many other articles I have read on this subject is that the Women and Men are part of two very different job landscapes that can barely be compared, if at all.

The second thing that I see is that the Women are asked to do more for their pay, which is completely out of line.

Finally, the culprit in some of the smaller day-to-day pay discrepancies is the Collective Bargaining Agreement that both the Men's team and the Women's team negotiate separately, and which are renewed, renegotiated and expire at different times, thus making some aspects of the pay difference not permanent but fluctuating.

dN

Announcing - USMNT friendly in Puerto Rico:

-Sun May 22

Puerto Rico v USA - 11am CT in Bayamon on FS1, UniMas and UDN

dN

In Germany John Brooks and Hertha were whipped by Dortmund at home 0-3 in the DFB Pokal semifinals. Brooks played the whole game. Christian Pulisic was on the bench for Dortmund but did not play.

-Bayern will host Dortmund on May 21 in the final.

dN

Short interview with Bob Bradley talking about MLS and UEFA Champions League. Nothing about Le Havre. [VIDEO] From ESPNFC.

dN

Bob Bradley + HAC - 4 games left - currently in 5th place - the race for 3rd place in Ligue 2 + promotion:

-Fri Apr 22

Evian v Le Havre

dN

Lets get all caught up on the latest expansion talk for MLS. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

Your weekly Minnesota United report from the training grounds. Carl Craig never fails to amaze with his comments - this week its "crystal wiggling." By Jeff Rueter of Northern Pitch.

dN

A preview of Week 4 in NASL. By Jake Nutting of Empire Of Soccer.

NASL Week 4 Matches:

-Fri Apr 22

Miami v OKC

-Sat Apr 23

Ft Lauderdale v Jacksonville

Tampa Bay v Carolina

Minnesota v New York

-Sun Apr 24

Edmonton v Ottawa

dN

In case you missed it:

This excerpt from the Chuck Blazer book American Huckster is fantastic. Its all about Jack Warner. From Sports Illustrated.

The Bird Is The Word
