Here is what my Martian intuition tells me (I guess we humanoids don't really have that, but it was the first thing that came to my mind):

GK: Kasey Keller (no surprise here at all)

RB: Steve Cherundolo (he is the man at this spot, no one else even comes close - Frankie Hejduk.....puhleeeeeease)

CB1: Corey Gibbs (straight into the first team at Feyenord should tell you all you need to know about the quality of this dude)

CB2: ??? (this is the bald spot of the whole team, and its also one of the most important on the pitch. We won't see Eddie Pope cuz he is stunningly hurt AGAIN! So who steps up? Greg Berhalter? - oh please no! Do the move Carlos Bocanegra back to his natural spot? Or do they go wild, and insert the future - Chad Marshall? I say throw the young man to the wolves and see if he survives. Arena has done both over the years and rarely lets us down, so your guess is as good as any of my Martian brethren's.)

LB: Carlos Bocanegra (this is not really his spot, but what other options do we have without John O'Brien healthy? Convey? Hejduk? Or a wild card like Eddie Lewis? I hope not.)

DMid: Pablo Mastroeni (he has proven that he does not need the long nasty looking dreadlocks to be great - and he is great)

CMid: Claudio Reyna (he is healthy and knows how to kill Mexico!)

RMid: Landon Donovan (another Mexico killer - and they hate him cuz they say he pissed on their lawn - in reality its cuz they can't stop him)

DMid: DaMarcus Beasley (oh baby, I can't wait to see him blow past the opposing defenders and lay in those crosses he has been perfecting)

F1: Brian McBride (the big veteran is yet another Mexikiller - and the real secret to his game is the defense that he starts from the front line)

F2: Eddie Johnson (who else! the kid is on fire, and has so much speed and confidence that I could see him scoring in this one)

There is my starting line up, complete with a big hole in the center of the defense. Will this hurt or will another new star emerge? Or will Coach Arena shock us with even more un-thought-of formations and players to stump the Mexicans. We shall see on Sunday at noon.
