It's Day 354 of 2016.

Minnesota United looks set to train in Casa Grande AZ in late January/early February and play at least 1 friendly, on Jan 31 v New England Revolution.

#NERevs will play preseason matches vs. Minnesota (1/31), RBNY (2/3), SKC (2/7), RSL (2/15), Colorado (2/18), SKC (2/22) and TBD (2/25).

— Jeff Lemieux (@jeff_lemieux) December 19, 2016

dN

From out of nowhere we get the general layout for the 2107 Gold Cup! (It so CONCACAF that we get no warning this was coming.)

USMNT games in Group B

Jul 08 in Nashville - Nissan Stadium

Jul 12 in Tampa - Raymond James Stadium

Jul 15 in Cleveland - FirstEnergy Stadium

Group A top seed yet to be determined

Group B top seed USA

Group C top seed Mexico

Other teams qualified:

Canada

Curacao

French Guiana

Jamaica

Martinique

Five more teams coming:

Top 4 from Copa Centoamericana (Jan 13-22)

Playoff winner: Caribbean zone 5th place v Central America 5th place

Group Stage dates, groups + stadiums:

Fri Jul 07 - Group A - Harrison - Red Bull Arena

Sat Jul 08 - Group B - Nashville - Nissan Stadium

Sun Jul 09 - Group C - San Diego - Qualcomm Stadium

Tue Jul 11 - Group A - Houston - BBVA Compass Stadium

Wed Jul 12 - Group B - Tampa - Raymond James Stadium

Thu Jul 13 - Group C - Denver - Sports Authority Field

Fri Jul 14 - Group A - Frisco - Toyota Stadium

Sat Jul 15 - Group B - Cleveland - FirstEnergy Stadium

Sun Jul 16 - Group C - San Antonio - Alamodome

Knockout Round games stadiums (in alphabetical order):

Arlington - AT+T Stadium

Glendale - University of Phoenix Stadium

Pasadena - Rose Bowl

Philadelphia - Lincoln Financial Field

Santa Clara - Levi's Stadium

dN

Cuauhtemoc Blanco, the Mexican footballing hero/villain and Hunchback of the DF won an election in June to be come Mayor of Cuernavaca, but the state legislature has begun proceedings to have him impeached because they feel he is in way over his head.

On Saturday Blanco went on "a hunger strike" in protest of the investigation!

Some say the impeachment is going forward because he beat the candidate from the powerful PRI party that has ruled Mexico at all levels for many decades.

Oh, the saga continues today as the Mexican Supreme Court has struck down the impeachment attempt, and Blanco is back to solid foods.

dN

Minnesota United reportedly trying to bring back Miguel Ibarra. By Jeff Rueter of Fifty Five One.

dN

What is the talk among soccer fans about the new Minnesota United stadium? By Michael Rand of the Star Tribune.

dN

A great remembrance of MLS Cup 2016 from a Toronto media member. By Mitchell Tierney of Waking The Red.

Thanks to Sounder At Heart for the heads up.

dN

In my book, every free kick goal is a fantastic goal. Here is someone's list of the Top 5 from the 2016 MLS season. [VIDEO]

dN

The 100 year old Palace Theater in downtown St Paul is about to re-open, managed by First Avenue. Awesome https://t.co/SwYgkXoiof

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) December 16, 2016

dN

Two American's in the Bundesliga scored goals over the weekend - Bobby Wood for Hamburg and Alfredo Morales for Ingolstadt. (Hamburg lost 3-1 at Mainz. And Ingolstadt won 1-2 at Leverkusen.)

Morales says his main mission is to re-join the USA national team. by Stephan Uersfeld of ESPNFC.

dN

The Bob Bradley + Swansea City Tracker:

Note - another terrible road loss, and the English media unloaded on BB for saying "road game" instead of "away match" and "PK" instead of "Penalty." Oof. You can't win with these people. The fans are restless, but have been since Day 1 of of BB's tenure.

Results - Sat Dec 17 L 3-0 at Middlesbrough

Standings - 18th Place, 3 Points and -13 GD into Relegation

Up Next - Mon Dec 26 v West Ham

This is how pathetic the haranguing of Bradley over terminology really is:

I watched 4+ hours of Bob Bradley pressers to see how often he uses British vs US lingo. You might be surprised. https://t.co/PeGo3uDZqF pic.twitter.com/IyLO366cmW

— Joshua Robinson (@JoshRobinson23) December 19, 2016

dN

After a futile trip to the Club World Cup in Japan Club America now has to regroup and play in 2 real games, the Mexican Final.

Liga MX Apertura Liguilla Final Schedule:

1st Leg

-Thu Dec 22

America v Tigres - 8:30pm CT on Univision + Univision Deportes

2nd Leg

-Sun Dec 25

Tigres v America - 6:00pm CT on Univision + Univision Deportes

dN

FIFA has sanctioned one CONCACAF team and is investigating another:

"Honduras has been banned from playing at the Olympic Stadium in San Pedro Sula for one match and fined $40,000US for several incidents during the Honduras v. Panama match. The suspension will be served at Honduras’ 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Costa Rica on Mar 28."

"Procedure opened against Mexico is currently on going, involving unsporting conduct by fans, including homophobic chants."

dN

Nominees for The CONCACAF Awards

Male Player of the Year:

Christian Bolanos - Costa Rica + Vancouver Whitecaps

Clint Dempsey - USA + Seattle Sounders

Javier Hernandez - Mexico

Bryan Ruiz - Costa Rica

Hirving Lozano - Mexico + Pachuca

Wes Morgan - Jamaica

Keylor Navas - Costa Rica

Christian Pulisic - USA

Romell Quioto - Honduras + Deportivo Olimpia

Rubens Sambueza - Mexico + Club America

Female Player Of The Year:

Janine Beckie - Canada + Houston Dash

Shirley Cruz - Costa Rica + Paris Saint-Germain

Crystal Dunn - USA + Washington Spirit

Tobin Heath - USA + Portland Thorns

Carli Lloyd - USA + Houston Dash

Alex Morgan - USA + Orlando Pride

Mallory Pugh - USA + Real Colorado

Becky Sauerbrunn - USA + Kansas City

Christine Sinclair - Canada + Portland Thorns

Karla Villalobos - Costa Rica + Union Deportiva Moravia

-You can vote here for these 2 awards and many others.

-In classic CONCACAF fashion no date was announced for when the winners would be announced.

dN

Results from the big games last weekend in Europe:

-Fri Dec 16

Hoffenheim 2-2 Dortmund - now #3 + #5

-Sat Dec 17

Juventus 1-0 Roma - still #1 + #2 with a 7 point gap

Leipzig 2-0 Hertha - now #2 + #3

-Sun Dec 18

Man City 2-1 Arsenal - now #2 + #4

Barcelona 4-1 Espanyol - The Barcelonian Derby

Monaco 1-3 Lyon - still #2 + #4

A couple more coming up mid-week:

-Mon Dec 19

Everton v Liverpool - The Merseyside Derby - 2:00pm CT on NBCSN

-Wed Dec 21

Bayern v Leipzig - #1 v #2 seperated by goal difference - 1:00pm CT on FS1

dN

Carlos Tevez is leaving Boca Juniors in the winter transfer window to go play in China and earn $761,000 per week, or $39.5M per year.

English journalists like to insult Chinese soccer by saying it is "even below the standards of Major League Soccer."

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. By the Guardian.

dN

The creepy-being with a sharp-bloody-axe heads for the Bundesliga Managers List, and its never pretty. By Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
