It's Day 223 of 2016.

US Open Cup Semifinals:

New England breezed into the final. Impressive.

The winner of LA v Dallas will host the championship game.

Chicago lost in the semifinals for the 4th consecutive year.

And the Fire looked like a team that must have gotten to the semifinal via multiple rounds of forfeits. I have no idea how that team beat anyone. They were miserable.

David Accam of Chicago got a late red card for a pushing and shouting incident with Kelyn Rowe after a rough Accam tackle.

-Tue Aug 9

New England Revolution 3-1 Chicago Fire - NER goals by Kei Kamara(PK), Je-Vaughn Watson + Teal Bunbury. CF goal by David Accam.

-Wed Aug 10

LA Galaxy v Dallas - 9pm CT on ESPN2

dN

USWNT Olympic Tournament

Overconfident?

Colombia pulled some great reverse psychology on the USA and it worked. For 2 days their coached talk about how exhausted and injured his team was, and how they couldn't compete with the USA even if they were 100%. The USA bought it, putting out a weakened lineup and losing concentration at key times.

Hope Solo in particular was sleep walking. She made two horrible mistakes on free kicks that got Colombia their goals.

Colombia only had 3 shots. And 2 went in, off set pieces. That leaves just 1 shot on target during the run of play, and yet the USA could not win.

Next up in the knock out stages USA will meet Sweden on Friday.

Group Stage Match Schedule:

-Wed Aug 3

USA 2-0 New Zealand - in Belo Horizonte - USA goals by Carli Lloyd + Alex Morgan.

-Sat Aug 6

USA 1-0 France - in Belo Horizonte - USA goal by Carli Lloyd.

-Tue Aug 9

USA 2-2 Colombia - USA goals by Crystal Dunn + Mallory Pugh. Col goals both by Catalina Usme.

Final Group G Standings:

7 USA (+3 GD) - ADVANCED

6 France (+6 GD) - ADVANCED

3 New Zealand (-4 GD)

1 Colombia (-5 GD)

Quarterfinals Match Schedule:

-Fri Aug 12

USA v Sweden - 11am CT on NBCSN

Other Quarterfinal Matches on Fri:

Brazil v Australia

Germany v China

Canada v France

Semifinals are on Tue Aug 16 in which the USA (with a win) would the winner of face Brazil/Australia.

dN

Inference: du Nord Music Mix Vol 91 (download + extract)

dN

Fort Lauderdale Strikers officially signed 36 year old Brazilian/Italian forward Amauri from Torino. In Serie A he has scored 89 goals in 16 seasons mostly for Chievo, Palermo, Juventus and Parma.

dN

Weekly MLS Awards with a brilliant twist. [VIDEO] by Alejandro Moreno of ESPNFC.

dN

English Premier League team-by-team season previews. From the Guardian:

Sunderland

Swansea

(see previous day's blog entries for other team previews)

The Bird Is The Word
