STARTERS

Jeff Cunningham did it again! Scoring his 16th goal in 13 games to lead Dallas to yet another win, and definitely into the MLS playoff picture. Amazing. When the team sold Kenny Cooper in August most people left this team for dead. They are now the Ultimate MLS Zombie - not only weirdly alive, but hungry for our brains.

TEAM USA

Adam Beasley of the Miami Herald with an article on Charlie Davies.

dN

Soccer By Ives with an article on Stuart Holden.

dN

SBI also checks in from Honduras.

dN

The Washington Post with an article on the odd viewing arrangements for the match from Honduras Saturday night.

dN

US Soccer gives us a generator to track every possibility in CONCACAF qualifying.

dN

Official Team Blog

CONCACAF WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Costa Rica roster

G:

Ricardo Gonzalez - Herediano

Adrian de Lemus - Herediano

Keylor Navas - Saprissa

D:

Junior Diaz - Wisla Krakow

Leonardo Gonzalez - Seattle Sounders

Pablo Herrera - Aalesunds

Luis Marin - Alajuelense

Dennis Marshall - AaB

Cristian Montero - Herediano

Roy Myrie - Gent

Oscar Seravalli - Cartagines

Michael Umana - Liberia

M:

Armando Alonso - Saprissa

Michael Barrantes - Saprissa

Walter Centeno - Saprissa

Christian Oviedo - Alajuelense

Douglas Sequeira - Saprissa

Esteban Sirias - Liberia

F:

Randall Azofeifa - Gent

Cristian Bolanos - Start

Rolando Fonseca - Comunicaciones

Froylan Ledezma - Admira

Victor Nunez - Liberia

Bryan Ruiz - Twente

Alvaro Saborio - Bristol City

dN

MLS

Official Web Site

Week 30

Matches & Scores

-Wed Oct 7

San Jose Earthquakes 1-2 FC Dallas - SJE goal by Quincy Amarikwa. FCD goals by David Ferreria & Jeff Cunningham.

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 9,023

-Sat Oct 10

Toronto FC v San Jose Earthquakes - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

New England Revolution v Columbus Crew - 6:30pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Chivas USA v Kansas City Wizards - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

dN

FYI: In MLS the first tie breaker in the standings is head-to-head play.

dN

I must say, its got to be pretty fun for Heath Pearce to drop into a team as red hot as Dallas after being on some pretty miserable teams in Germany. And Jeff Cunningham and David Ferriera have to be about as remarkable a duo as we have ever seen in the league in such a short period of time. Did anyone out there see this coming? Honestly? Look at the crazy lineup they put out. Full of unknowns and rejects - Daniel Hernandez back from several years of exile in Mexico, Dave Van Den Bergh dumped out of New York, Ugo Ihemelu on this 3rd MLS team in 4 years, little Dax McCarty, the bad boy Cunningham, Attiba The Hun Harris, whoever George John is, and the unknown foreigners Jair Benetiz, Marvin Chavez and Ferreria. Not to mention a motley bench with Daniel Torres, Pablo Richetti, young Eric Avila & Bruno Guarda, Andre Rocha and others. Then you throw in John Ellinger as an assistant coach. Yes, a very odd roster makeup. The last thing I will say on the subject is that you also have to love the wide open attacking brand of soccer they play. Let's hope they really stick with this and Hyndmann makes it a FCD staple for the future. The league needs all the attacking fun it can get its hands on.

dN

San Jose, after losing last night, was officially elimidated from the playoff chase.

dN

Tom Dunmore of Pitch Invasion and the Vice-Chairman of Section 8 Chicago writes an open letter to Chicago Fire owner Andrew Hauptman.

USL FIRST DIVISION

The Charlotte News Observer reports that a sit down meeting between USL management and disgruntled team owners has born some fruit.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Potential USA international Jermaine Jones of Schalke has had to have another surgery to try and repair a broken bone in his shin. He will be out until Dec 1 at this rate.

UEFA WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

The Guardian on Russia as they try to steal their group from Germany.

dN

Paul Doyle of the Guardian on the Belgian team's meltdown.

U20 WORLD CUP EGYPT 2009

FIFA.com's tournament news feed.

dN

In the final games of the Round of 16, Brazil rolls while Germany and UAE both leave it way way late but pull out the win to advance. The Quarterfinals are now set for Friday and Saturday.

dN

See all the games live on ESPN2, ESPN Classic or ESPN360.com.

dN

Round of 16 Knock Out:

-Mon Oct 5

Paraguay 0-3 South Korea - SK goals by Kim Bo Kyung & Kim Min Woo(2).

Spain 1-3 Italy - Spa goal by Aaron Niguez(PK). Ita goals by Mattia Mustacchio(2) & Andrea Mazzarani.

-Tue Oct 6

Ghana 1-1 South Africa - Gha win 2-1 in Added Extra Time - Gha goals by Andre Ayew & Dominic Adiyiah. SA goal by Kermit Erasmus.

Hungaria 2-2 Czechia - Hun win it 4-3 in the Penalty Shoot Out - Hun goals by Mate Kiss & Vladimir Koman. Cze goals by Jan Vosahlik & Michael Rabusic.

Egypt 0-2 Costa Rica - CR goals by Jose Mena & Marcos Urena.

-Wed Oct 7

Brazil 3-1 Uruguay - Bra goals by Alan Kardec & Alex Teixeira(2). Uru goal by Jonathan Urretaviscaya.

Germany 3-2 Nigeria - Ger goals by Bjorn Kopplin(2) & Mario Vrancic. Nig goals by Danny Uchechi & Rabiu Ibrahim.

Venezuela 1-2 UAE - Ven goal by Jose Rondon. UAE goals by Mohamed Ahmed & Ahmed Khalil.

dN

Quarterfinals

-Fri Oct 9

South Korea v Ghana

Italy v Hungaria

-Sat Oct 10

Brazil v Germany

Costa Rica v UAE

Semifinals

-Tue Oct 13

South Korea/Ghana winner v Italy/Hungaria winner

Brazil/Germany winner v Costa Rica/UAE winner

Final

-Fri Oct 16

Semifinal winners

ENDERS

This has to be more than many of us really wanted to see out of DC United. But then again I am sure there are those that will really dig this picture. For them, enjoy.
