-Sigi Schmidt checked in to thank me for the advice with his new club (see yesterday). Columbus has called a press conference for Thursday to introduce the Sigger to his new peeps.

-Oh Freddy. Yer timing is impeccable! The playoffs start on Friday and you are still such a lil Mama's boy. With a ton of greedy adults whispering bullshit in your ear. Freddy is whining to Steven Goff of the Washington Post again, about wanting more playing time. He is real mad at the coach. Maybe he wants to play for Chivas USA? Its funny how many times I have read about a star athlete like Freddy making this comment: "... but you've got to swallow your pride and be a team player." Great! Then do it punk! Shut yer mouth and be a team player! Or don't make the statement. You can't have it both ways. And you won't win any sympathy this way either. Bitch.

-DCenters hand out their own post season awards for DC United (of course). Excellent work man! And The Fall is a favorite musical artists at the DCenters too, which is even more awe-inspiring!

-All last weekends goals score by PSV are viewable now at the team website. For many reasons it's always a blast to watch them. 1. The fans go nuts. 2. They play this hilarious techno-polka type song after every goal & 3. The announcer has a great voice and loves to scream the players names after the goal. There is nothing like hearing this guy yell "Jaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaan Vennegoooooooooooor of Hesseliiiiiiiiiiiink". If you listen closely, you will also hear that Vennegoor has his own theme song now too!!! Don't miss goal #3 for some of that incredible Beasley magic.

-Brian Kerr is officially done as Ireland coach. Who steps up?

-The names of the nominees for USA Honda Player of the Year have been released. And here they are: DaMarcus Beasley, Landon Donovan and Kasey Keller. Journalists vote for the winner. Here is my ranking: 1. Keller (No doubt about it. Awesome for USA, and saved Gladbach's back bacon.) 2. Beasley (As much for his PSV explosion as his great USA play.) 3. Landycakes (He is on the list cuz he is super-talented, and played great most of the time for USA, but was a baby and subpar for everyone else. My fave Baby Jesus moment of '05 though, was the kids in the parking lot at San Jose taking shots at the Landycakes Pinata! What a beautiful visual.)

-Frank Dell'apa gives us his Look Back At The Regular Season (of MLS) from ESPNSoccernet.

-Dell'apa also writes in the Boston Globe today about the Scots who coach New England and Metrostars. Nicol and Johnston.

-How about Thierry Henry! Wow! (I am stealing this expression from Shep Messing.) The man hasn't played in a month, but is on the bench for the Champs League match v Sparta in Prague. Reyes proceeds to break a rib only 15 minutes into the match, so Henry enters early. What does he do? Connects for a goal about 5 minutes later, then adds a second for a 2-0 win. Savior! Henry! Hooray Henry! Hooray Beer!

-In other Champions League games yesterday: Bayern took out all their frustrations on Juve 2-1, Panathanikos did a brilliant job of keeping Barca off the scoreboard 0-0, and Man U choked down another pound of dirt drawing 0-0 with Lille (and the pinheaded Paul Scholes got a nice lil red card). See the Group Standings here.

All the scores from yesterday:

Bayern 2-1 Juventus

Rapid 0-1 Club Brugge

Ajax 2-0 Thun

Sparta 0-2 Arsenal

Udinese 1-1 Bremen

Panathinaikos 0-0 Barcelona

Villarreal 1-1 Benfica

Manchester United 0-0 Lille

And here are todays matches:

Milan v PSV

Fenerbahce v Schalke

Lyon v Olympiacos

Real Madrid v Rosenborg

Chelsea v Betis

Anderlecht v Liverpool

Rangers v Artmedia

Porto v Internazionale

-There are also a whole skid full of UEFA Cup matches too (one today and the rest tomorrow):

Lokomotiv Moskva v Espanyol

Viking v Monaco

CSKA Sofia v Hamburg

Maccabi Petach-Tikva v Palermo

Halmstad v Hertha Berlin

Steaua v Lens

Grasshoppers v Middlesbrough

Dnipro v AZ Alkmaar

Basel v Strasbourg

Tromso v Roma

CSKA Moskva v Marseille

Dinamo Bucuresti v Heerenveen

Rennes v Stuttgart

Shakhtar Donetsk v PAOK

Zenit v Guimaraes

Besiktas v Bolton

-His Royal Highness, Grahame L. Jones of the Los Angeles Times autopsies the Chivas USA carcass.

-Pete Grathoff of the KC Star on the Zards Plan B.

-FC Dallas fan site, 3rd Degree posts their annual awards - The Thirds.

-Soccer America has a little stat showing how many goals are averaged per game in the some of the worlds top leagues:

3.03 Mexican First Division

2.91 Bundesliga

2.87 Major League Soccer

2.78 Brazilian First Division

2.58 La Liga

2.57 Premier League

2.53 Serie A

2.45 Argentine First Division

2.17 Ligue 1

-I know many of you have been holding your breath waiting for this announcement, so tomorrow I will announce my MLS Best 11, and Best Young 11, plus the list of other players I considered for those two squads.
