It's Day 40 of 2017.

MINNESOTA UNITED PRESEASON

The new Minnesota United uniforms will be unveiled Fri Feb 17.

The team announced that it has crossed the 10,000 season tickets line.

The aim is for 11,842 by opening day. I'm not making that up.

Matches:

Portland Invitational

-Thu Feb 9

MNUFC v Vancouver Whitecaps - 7:00pm CT - Webstream at mnufc.com

-Sun Feb 12

MNUFC v Portland Timbers - 7:00pm CT - Webstream at mnufc.com

-Wed Feb 15

MNUFC v Real Salt Lake - 7:00pm CT - Webstream at mnufc.com

Five things to watch for tonight. By Jeff Rueter of Fifty One Fifty.

Minn United gives us a preview of tonight's friendly.

Contrary to earlier reports goalkeeper Marco Carducci who is getting a try out will be with the team in Portland.

Ismaila Jome is now listed as a midfielder on this roster up date.

Training camp roster (30):

G: John Alvbage, Marco Carducci (trialist), Patrick McLain

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (trialist), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Joe Greenspan, Alvin Jones (trialist), Brent Kallman, Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Thomas de Villardi (unsigned draft pick)

M: Bernardo Anor, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Ismaila Jome, Bashkim Kadrii, Collin Martin, Kevin Molino, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson (unsigned draft pick), Johan Venegas, Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez

One of the leading authorities on Trinidad + Tobago football is Mr Lasana Liburd. I asked him to describe MNUFC trialist Alvin Jones:

@dunord @MNUFC I think he is a good kid first of all. Lacks his brother's athleticism. But very versatile and kicks the ball a mile

— Lasana Liburd (@lasanaliburd) February 9, 2017

@dunord @MNUFC he played so many positions and it cost him as he never got chance to specialize anyway. But I think he's a central defender

— Lasana Liburd (@lasanaliburd) February 9, 2017

Jones was on the T+T roster for the recent Gold Cup qualifiers and was listed as midfielder. So there you go.

The player is also the younger brother of Seattle left fullback Joevin Jones.

dN

International Clash Day: du Nord Music Mix Vol 111 (download + extract)

dN

6 Americans played midweek games in the German Pokal. They didn't all win, but they all had good games. By Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

Brooks lost, Chander won, Johnson won, Pulisic won, Wood won, Wooten lost.

dN

Bruce Arena discussed how the make up of his World Cup qualifying roster might look. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC,

USMNT has scored 38 goals in the past 21 games (2016 + 2017). 1.8 per game average. But very few against top teams (5 goals in 8 games.)

dN

20 players named for the USMNT U-20 roster for CONCACAF World Cup qualifying, Feb 17 to Mar 5 in Costa Rica:

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown

D: Marlon Fossey - Fulham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City, Auston Trusty - Philadelphia Union

M: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Coy Craft - Dallas, Luca De la Torre - Fulham, Jonathan Gonzalez - Monterrey, Jeremiah Gutjahr - Indiana U, Jonathan Lewis - New York City, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - Las Palmas

C: Tab Ramos

Group B

-Sat Feb 18

USA v Panama - 3pm CT

-Tue Feb 21

USA v Haiti - 4:30pm CT

-Fri Feb 24

USA v St Kitts + Nevis - 4:30pm CT

Games broadcast on Univision networks.

Tournament format: 3 initial groups. Top 2 from each group advances to a 2nd group stage consisting of 2 groups of 3. The top 2 teams in each of those groups advances to the U20 World Cup, and winners of those 2 groups playing for the CONCACAF Championship on Mar 3.

FIFA U20 World Cup is in South Korea, May 20 to Jun 11.

For some crazy reason Jackson Yueill is not on this team! Borderline bizarre.

dN

English newspaper raving about Liga MX. Well done. I agree. By Richard Foster of the Guardian.

dN

Biggest European matches:

-Sat Feb 11

Liverpool v Tottenham - #5 v #2

The Bird Is The Word
