It's Day 286 of 2016.

Are you considering Minnesota United season tickets for 2017?

Come to this soccer supporters event on Sat Oct 15 at 10am:

Blackeye Roasting

3740 Chicago Ave in Minneapolis

dN

Wednesday is a big night for Minnesota in NASL. Even though they don't play.

With a win at home Carolina can vault United into 4th place.

Miami and Tampa clash on Friday and a winner in that match would jump over Minn in the standings too.

OKC can tie Minnesota on points with a win tonight. They are currently 4 behind in Goal Differential as well.

NASL Mid-Week 26 Schedule:

-Wed Oct 12

Carolina v OKC

Jacksonville v Indy

Ft Lauderdale v Edmonton

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#56 New York (3 games left)

#50 Edmonton (4 games left)

*45 Indy (5 games left)

-----

38 Minnesota (+4 GD) (3 games left)

-----

37 Tampa Bay (+1 GD) (4 games left)

37 Carolina (-8 GD) (4 games left)

36 Miami (0 GD) (4 games left)

35 OKC (0 GD) (4 games left)

*Won Spring Season, automatically in playoffs

#Clinched a top 4 finish and a playoff spot

dN

USA Mens National Team friendly:

-Tue Oct 11

USA 1-1 New Zealand - RFK Stadium, Washington DC - USA goal by Julian Green. NZ goal by Monty Patterson.

These friendlies mean absolutely nothing, so don't make prediction for next months qualifiers based on what you saw in the past 2 games. Its a waste of time.

Only 9000 people bothered to show up for this game.

A dull game with a few moments of fun and excitement.

On the whole New Zealand were the better team.

But the NZ keeper(s) had to make bigger saves.

Both teams goals made their own goalkeepers look pretty foolish.

Julian Green again excelled.

Lynden Gooch is really fast.

Fullback is a real problem spot for the USA. And there are no apparent answers or other players to give a shot. We are stuck with what we currently have available. Ugh.

Here was the Roster for the NZ game:

G: David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes, Bill Hamid - DC United, William Yarbrough - Leon

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Steve Birnbaum - DC United, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Michael Orozco - Tijuana, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Perry Kitchen - Heart Of Midlothian, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Danny Williams - Reading

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Terrence Boyd - RB Leipzig, Julian Green - Bayern Munich

dN

Who will be in the USA roster for Mexico and Costa Rica World Cup qualifiers next month? Here are three educated guesses:

Steve Goff of the Washington Post

Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated

Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

What could possibly be better than watching the Stooges documentary in Detroit with Iggy and Jarmusch?

.@JimJarmusch & @IggyPop will be at the DFT Oct. 25 for an advance screening of Jarmusch's #GimmeDanger. Tickets: https://t.co/1T4uLnw16M pic.twitter.com/tpRyw9tyHa

— Detroit Inst of Arts (@DIADetroit) October 12, 2016

Opens in Minneapolis at the Landmark Lagoon cinema in Uptown on Fri Nov 4.

dN

Cradle: du Nord Music Mix Vol 100 (download + extract)

dN

The Shiite Muslim holy day of Ashura collided with World Cup qualifying yesterday in Iran. Here is how the 2 co-existed. By Thomas Erdbrink of the New York Times.

dN

Peter Wilt uses all of his soccer team building expertise to see where the professional men's game could be successful in the USA where it doesn't already exist. From Howler.

My manifesto on pro soccer expansion on @whatahowler.

Criteria and market rankings. Let me know your thoughts: https://t.co/81BCEHT9QN

— peter wilt (@PeterWilt1) October 12, 2016

dN

Preki is finally returning to soccer coaching, after 2 years away, to take over St Louis FC in the USL. By Evan Ream of the Davis Enterprise.

dN

The Bob Bradley + Swansea City Tracker:

Standings - 17th Place, +3 Goal Differential Above Relegation

Up Next - Sat Oct 15 at Arsenal - 9am CT on NBCSN

dN

Q + A with Bob Bradley as he prepares for his EPL debut at Arsenal. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Standings - 1st Place, 4 Point Lead

Up Next - Sat Oct 15 at America - 9pm CT on Univision Deportes

dN

I know some people are crazy for the video game Football Manager. The new version is on the way. Jump online this wee for the release announcement:

Football Manager 2017 “Big Reveal”

Thu Oct 13

2pm CT on FACEBOOK

New version to be released on Nov 4

dN

UEFA and CONCACAF Champions Leagues return next week.

dN

MLS Mid-Week 32 Schedule:

-Wed Oct 12

Seattle Sounders v Houston Dynamo - 9:30pm CT on MLS Live

-Thu Oct 13

Chicago Fire v Columbus Crew - 7:30pm CT on MLS Live

Colorado Rapids v SJ Earthquakes - 8pm CT on MLS Live

dN

18 interesting stats to know this week in MLS. By Opta at Four Four Two.

dN

Apparently Matt Besler is good enough to start for the USA but not Kansas City. Go figure. By Sam McDowell of the Kansas City Star.

dN

South American World Cup Qualifying

Brazil has moved into 1st place.

Argentina is just 1 point above the rat cellar.

CONMEBOL Standings:

(10 of 18 games played)

21 Brazil

20 Uruguay

17 Ecuador

17 Colombia

-----

16 Argentina

-----

15 Paraguay

14 Chile

8 Peru

8 Bolivia

2 Venezuela

Results from Round 10:

-Tue Oct 11

Bolivia 2-2 Ecuador

Colombia 2-2 Uruguay

Chile 2-1 Peru

Argentina 0-1 Paraguay

Venezuela 0-2 Brazil

dN

UEFA World Cup Qualifying

Biggest results on Matchday 3:

-Mon Oct 10

Neth 0-1 France

Faroe Islands 0-6 Portugal

Gibraltar 0-6 Belgium

-Tue Oct 11

Slovakia 3-0 Scotland

Slovenia 0-0 England

Just 4 teams in Europe left with perfect records after 3 of 10 games:

Belgium

Germany

Greece

Switzerland

dN

10 stories of importance from the round of just completed World Cup qualifiers. From the Guardian.

dN

World Cup qualifiers this week. Schedules and results.

The Bird Is The Word
