It's Day 140 of 2016.

Minnesota United learned their potential US Open Cup 4th Round opponent:

#USOC2016 Fourth Round Draw:@SportingKC at @MNUnitedFC / @SaintLouisFC winner

— U.S. Open Cup (@opencup) May 19, 2016

MU will travel to Saint Louis FC on Wed Jun 1 for the 3rd Round.

Last year MU went to StL in the 3rd Round and lost in a Penalty Kick Shootout. Besides a short spell early in the 2nd half MU played a terrible game and StL took some of the nicest PKs I have ever seen.

A potential game hosting Sporting Kansas City would be on Wed Jun 15.

dN

Ben Speas of Minn United is out with an ankle injury:

.@MNUnitedFC F/MID Ben Speas will miss “a couple weeks” with a “badly sprained ankle,” coach Carl Craig said. Banks or Anor likely subs

— David La Vaque (@David_LaVaque) May 17, 2016

dN

An interview with Minnesota United's #10 Ben Speas, and words from head coach Carl Craig. By Jeff Rueter of Northern Pitch.

dN

Minn United midfielder Jeb Brovsky brings a rugged peace to the world. What a great attitude. I can get on board with his philosophy. By David LaVaque of the Minneapolis Star Tribune.

dN

You really need to listen to the latest edition of the Mutant Gene Podcast hosted by Alexi Lalas. He talks very candidly with Steve Sampson about the USA disastrous 1998 World Cup endeavor. [AUDIO]

dN

According to just leaked salary numbers 23 MLS players earn $1 million or more.

dN

Sports Business Journal, Americas leading sports business trade magazine, named MLS the League Of The Year. Interesting.

Congrats to @thesoccerdon & @MLS on winning league of the year at the @sbjsbd awards pic.twitter.com/d6iLY4DlYt

— Ben Grossman (@grossman) May 19, 2016

For me they won't be 100% legit league until the TV ratings are significantly higher.

dN

MLS Week 12 - two games last night:

-Wed May 18

Toronto 1-1 New York City

New York Red Bulls 1-0 Chicago Fire

My MLS Notes:

30k+ in Toronto for a Wednesday game is tremendous.

The tie and 1 point gives NYC the Eastern Conf lead on points, but not points-per-game.

With only 3 total goals last night we might as well watch them all cuz they are quality:

-Mike Grella finishes off a great team goal for RBNY.

-Another strong team goal, this one by Toronto, touched into an open net by Will Johnson.

-And Kwadwo Poku of NYC had the best of the three!

Chicago has 7 points from 10 games. Its getting really bad. The summer transfer window can't come soon enough for them. The only good news is that they are just 10 points out of first place in the East.

Anecdotes on Twitter this morning are saying this is the worst start to a season for Chicago Fire ever.

dN

Guitarist Tom Morello, bassist Tim Commerford and drummer Brad Wilk, all formerly of Rage Against The Machine, are joining Chuck D of Public Enemy and B-Real of Cypress Hill to form a new band called Prophets of Rage.

dN

12 of the Top 20 drunkest cities in the USA are in Wisconsin.

dN

Original bass player Ernie Brooks tells the story of Jonathan Richman and the Modern Lovers, one of the greatest 70s bands that never really even got off the ground. They made a legendary patchwork album that came out 2 years after they broke up. By Legs McNeil of Please Kill Me.

dN

US Open Cup:

Many 2nd Round games last night and one more on Thu May 19. See all the results right here.

Plenty of upsets of course - including 4 amateur teams beating pros.

Lets check in on the 8 derby matches:

Charlotte Eagles 0-2 Charlotte Independence

Richmond Kickers 3-0 Aromas Cafe

West Chester United 0-2 Harrisburg City Islanders

San Antonio FC 3-1 Corinthians FC of San Antonio

Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC 1-0 Harpo's FC

Kitsap Pumas 1-0 Seattle Sounders U23

FC Tucson 0-5 Arizona United

LA Wolves 1-1 Orange County Pateadores Blues - LAW wins 4-2 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

In the next round OKC Energy (USL) plays at crosstown team Rayo OKC (NASL). I love it.

Other 3rd Round derby matches:

Carolina RailHawks FC (NASL) v Charlotte Independence (USL)

La Maquina (CA Amateur) v LA Wolves FC (CA amateur)

Rochester Rhinos (USL) v Lansdowne Bhoys FC (NY amateur)

Jacksonville Armada FC (NASL) v The Villages SC (PDL)

Former Minnesota United forward MacKenzie Pridham scored for Sacramento in their 5-0 victory over Aguiluchos.

dN

A new USL team will launch in Nashville in 2018.

dN

American Randy Lerner has sold English club Aston Villa to Chinese Tony Xia. Aston Villa had never been relegated out of the Premier League until this season.

dN

Liga MX Clausura Laguilla Semifinals:

Four really good teams in the semis. No one will be a surprise winner.

1st Leg

-Wed May 18

America (4) 1-0 Monterrey (1)

goal by Osvaldo Martinez.

Edgar Castillo played the full 90 for Mon.

Ventura Alvarado was not in the game day 18 for Ame.

-Thu May 19

Leon (3) v Pachuca (2)

2nd Leg

-Sat May 21

Monterrey v America (0-1) - 8:30pm CT on Univision Deportes

-Sun May 22

Pachuca v Leon - 8:00pm CT on NBC UNIVERSO.

dN

Canadian Championship 1st Rd:

-Wed May 18

Ottawa Fury 0-2 Edmonton - OF advances 3-2 on aggregate.

Both teams won on the road. Doesn't happen very often.

Ottawa will next face Vancouver Whitecaps in the Semifinals.

Toronto and Montreal pair up in the other Semifinal.

dN

Europa League Final:

Sevilla wins their 3rd consecutive Europa championship!

-Wed May 18

Liverpool 1-3 Sevilla - Liv lead 1-0 at halftime.

The Bird Is The Word
