It's Day 95 of 2017.

Big news: US Soccer and the Women's National Team announced that they have agreed to a new Collective Bargaining Agreement that runs thru 2021. Huge congrats to them.

Some details on what the new agreement gives the team - increased money and resources in many areas. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

dN

The Irish women's team has put their foot down. They say they are done being treated poorly by their federation. They made a list of demands and then failed to show up for training today. From FM104.

They will sit down with federation leadership later today to discuss the issues. By Emmet Malone for the Irish Times.

This is their list of grievances, and its not light. From the Irish Times.

dN

After Minnesota had the lead in Denver for just 1 minute it was great to see them get the lead on Saturday against RSL and hold it for the remaining 41:16 of the game for the win.

Thanks to The Real Greg X for the exact time.

dN

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The better team won last night and it wasn't FC Dallas. By Peter Welpton for Dallas Morning News.

The series was tied 3-3 in 2nd half stoppage time but Dallas was a step behind Pachuca at that point and could not prevent a last second goal.

I saw a few people online last night saying Kellyn Acosta was the best player on the field. No chance. I think Acosta is very good but he couldn't come close to the performance of Hirving Lozano for Pachuca. That guy was fantastic.

And why was Dallas tired at the end? They didn't play over the weekend. And why was Acosta taken off with several minutes left to play? Odd situation.

The 8,000 ft elevation in Pachuca most likely played a role in Dallas's demise, even though they trained in Pachuca for the week leading up to the game.

Waaaaay too many Dallas players put in subpar performances - give that credit to Pachuca who are an excellent team, and made Dallas pay for every mistake.

According to the great statistician Paul Carr: Mexican clubs have now advanced in 26 of 29 CONCACAF knockout series vs MLS teams.

Omar Gonzalez and Pachuca are very happy:

Vamos Pachuca, queremos la Copa!!!! pic.twitter.com/1DWNLUlLyz

— Omar Gonzalez (@Omar4Gonzalez) April 5, 2017

Let's not kid ourselves here, MLS teams still have a long way to go to be on par with Liga MX opponents. By Paul Tenorio for Four Four Two.

There has been talk that the difference in team salaries between Pachuca and Dallas was $40M to $5M. I don't believe that, but even half that would still be huge.

Tonight its the Vancouver Whitecaps turn to try for the Final. They are trailing by 2 goals, but are playing at home. A letter to fans from Vancouver head coach Carl Robinson as they take on heavy favorites Tigres. From Vancouver Province.

Vancouver needs to win by 3 goals to advance. Good luck to them.

Semifinal Schedule/Results:

2nd Leg

-Tue Apr 4

Pachuca 3-1 Dallas - Pac advances 4-3 on aggregate.

-Wed Apr 5

Vancouver v Tigres (0-2) - 9pm CT on Univision Deportes, Galavision + CONCACAF Facebook

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Today's media reports:

The 2 newest Loons are Marc Burch and Sam Cronin. What are they bringing to the team? By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Cronin is said to be a key piece to this new Minnesota team. By Jeff Rueter for MLS.

Word is out that MNUFC training session are HARD work. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Match Schedule/Results:

-Sat Apr 8

Dallas v Minnesota - 7:00pm CT on My29 + TXA-21

dN

Undisputed: du Nord Music Mix Vol 118 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Ryan Hollingshead of Dallas was hit by a car on an icy freeway in early January while trying to help a fellow stranded traveler. He suffered a broken neck and other minor injuries. He was lucky to alive. But he is already back to training with the team! By Jeff Miller for ESPNFC.

Week 6 Schedule/Results:

-Fri Apr 7

LA Galaxy v Montreal Impact

-Sat Apr 8

Chicago Fire v Columbus Crew

New England Revolution v Houston Dynamo

DC United v New York City - 3:00pm CT on UniMas

Philadelphia Union v Portland Timbers

Toronto v Atlanta United

Dallas v Minnesota United

Real Salt Lake v Vancouver Whitecaps

San Jose Earthquakes v Seattle Sounders

-Sun Apr 9

Orlando City v New York Red Bulls - 3:00pm CT on ESPN

Sporting Kansas City v Colorado Rapids - 6:00pm CT on FS1

Josef Martinez of Atlanta United Named MLS Player Of The Month for March.

Well deserved award for the 23 year old Venezuelan who scored 5 goals in 3 games including a hat trick against Minnesota.

dN

St Louis's bid for MLS expansion weighed on a vote to give tax revenue to the stadium project - it failed at the polls yesterday.

A note from the leader of that expansion group:

Painful and disappointing result for STL & our awesome supporters...but what an incredible effort by everyone involved! Thank you!! pic.twitter.com/S2dFy5aswN

— Jim Kavanaugh (@jimpkavanaugh) April 5, 2017

dN

USMNT

Which USA players are on the ups and which are on the downs? By Doug McIntyre for ESPNFC.

dN

The Terrence Boyd + Darmstadt Tracker:

Results - Wed Apr 5 Lost 0-2 v Leverkusen

Note - Boyd started and went 65 minutes in the losing effort.

Standings - With just 7 games left they are in Last place, 14 points below relegation playoff and 15 points from safety.

Up Next - Sun Apr 9 at Ingolstadt

dN

BIG MID-WEEK GAMES IN EUROPE:

-Wed Apr 5

Barcelona v Sevilla - #2 v #4

Chelsea v Manchester City - #1 v #4

The Bird Is The Word
