I am happy to be back!

STARTERS

Giant thanks go out to Graham, Tim, Joe and Adam for minding the shop while I was out gallivanting. I hope to have some good stuff for you from my trip to London.

dN

Mo Edu was the man of the hour for Rangers, as he banged home a goal in the dying seconds to beat rivals Celtic 1-0 on Sunday. The goalmouth scramble is always one of the biggest thrills/heartbreaks in all of football!

-Rangers now lead 2nd place Celtic by 10 points after 26 matches with 12 more to go.

dN

Herculez Gomez! Superstar! He has scored in his 3rd consecutive game and 4th goal overall for Puebla since his move to Mexico in January. Muy fantastico for him!

dN

Guus Hiddink has been named to coach Ivory Coast, and Lars Lagerbeck has been hired to coach Nigeria at the World Cup.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to originally extend it until Feb 12, and now a further 13 days to Feb 25.

dN

And now that Feb 25 has come and gone with no new deal being finished, we enter the Twilight Zone.

dN

The Associated Press reports that the players have said they will not strike right now, and want to continue to negotiate. Via Soccernet.

-Earlier the league had said that they would be willing to start the season under the rules of the expired contract if need be.

dN

Steve Davis of ESPN Soccernet looks at some of the details of the impasse.

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated gives the brand new Red Bull Arena the kind of rave up that we were all hoping to read.

30 of 32 WORLD CUP FINALISTS IN FRIENDLY MATCHES THIS WEEK

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Mar 3

Algeria v Serbia

Argentina at Germany

Australia v Indonesia

Brazil v Ireland in London, England

Cameroon v Italy in Monte Carlo, Monaco

Cote d'Ivoire v South Korea in London, England

Denmark at Austria

England v Egypt

France v Spain

Germany v Argentina

Ghana at Bosnia-Herzegovina

Greece v Senegal

Honduras at Turkey

Italy v Cameroon in Monte Carlo, Monaco

Japan v Bahrain

Mexico v New Zealand in Pasadena, California, USA

Netherlands v USA

New Zealand v Mexico in Pasadena, California, USA

Nigeria v Congo DR

Portugal v China

Serbia at Algeria

Slovakia v Norway

Slovenia v Qatar

South Africa v Namibia

South Korea v Cote d'Ivoire in London, England

Spain at France

Switzerland v Uruguay

Uruguay at Switzerland

USA at Netherlands

-Sat Mar 6

North Korea at Venezuela

dN

Chile & Paraguay are the two teams without games this week.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

I am working on a nice photo essay of my fine trip to England last week. Stay tuned for that.

MLS NEWS

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet looks at who will lead the Chicago Fire attack without Blanco around.

dN

Potential future USA star midfielder Luis Gil signed with MLS allocated to Kansas City via a lottery, and has now been dealt to a team he preferred Real Salt Lake.

USL NEWS

The USL has begun posting their countdown of the Top 25 USL First Division players of the past Decade:

25-21

20

19

18

17

16

15

14

13

12 Andrew Gregor

11 Leyton O'Brien

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Noah Davis at Goal.com talks to former USA Captain Claudio Reyna about the upcoming World Cup, the differences between the USA teams in 02 and 06, and other things. Interesting thoughts from Captain America.

TEAM USA

Official Team Blog

-Steve Cherundolo & Oguchi Onyewu are both with Team USA in Amsterdam, even though they are not available for Wednesday's game. Cherundolo is actually training with the team while he is recovering from a shoulder injury, while Onyewu is just there to party! Hahahahahaha.

-And how would you like to see these two at 100% flying down the wings in game 1 of the World Cup against England. I have goose bumps just thinking about it. (Like this photo they posted):

dN

Friendly Match & Score:

-Wed Mar 3

Netherlands v USA - 1:30 Central on ESPN2

Venue: Ajax Arena - Amsterdam

dN

Here is the USA roster for that game:

G:

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton

Tim Howard - Everton

D:

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes

Jonathan Bornstein - Chivas USA

Jay DeMerit - Watford

Clarence Goodson - Start

Heath Pearce - Dallas

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday

Jonathan Spector - West Ham United

M:

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach

Landon Donovan - Everton

Maurice Edu - Rangers

Stuart Holden - Bolton

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca

F:

Jozy Altidore - Hull City

Robbie Findley - Real Salt Lake

Eddie Johnson - Aris Saloniki

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

Boxing legend Oscar De La Hoya joins the official US Bid Committee.

Still no fans representative. Frustrating.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Kevin McCarra of the Guardian with a match report from the League Cup final in England, which saw Brad Friedel in the net for Aston Villa lose 2-1 to Manchester United.

dN

Landon Donovan choked on a chance to get at least a point for his team when he missed a sitter. Not good.

dN

Jemal Johnson and Jon Paul Pittman faced off in the English League One with Johnson's Stockport winning 4-3 over Wycombe, but the two teams sit in the last two spots of the division and unless they pull off a miracle they are going down.

dN

Rico Clark made the subs bench for Eintracht Frankfurt.

dN

Neither Freddy or Eddie saw the field for Aris.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - League Cup Final

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - played the full 90 but lost 2-1 to Manchster United at Wembley Stadium.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Landon Donovan - Everton - went the full 90 came on as a sub in the 63rd minute as they lost 2-1 at Tottenham. [Thanks to Nell for the correction]

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - played the entire match but lost 1-0 at Bolton.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - went the full 90 and the won 1-0 at home over Wolverhampton.

Tim Howard - Everton - played the whole game but lost 2-1 at Tottenham.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the full 90 but lost 1-2 at home to Newcastle.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Stockport County - started and played 77 minutes scoring his teams 3rd goal as they won at home 4-3 over Wycombe.

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - went the distance but lost 4-3 at Stockport.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - played the whole match but lost 3-1 at Montpellier.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the distance but only drew 1-1 at home against Freiburg.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - went the whole 90 scoring his teams 1st goal as they rolled 5-2 at home over Volendam.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Maurice Edu - Rangers - came on as a sub in the 26th minute and scored the game winner in stoppage time at the end of the game as they won the Old Firm derby 1-0 at home over Celtic.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Stockport County - Tue Mar 2 at Bristol Rovers

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the distance but lost 0-3 at home to Morelia.

Herculez Gomez - Pueblo - came on as a sub in the 26th minute, scored his teams last goal and tied 3-3 at hojme against Chiapas.

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - played the full 90 but got clobbered 0-3 at home but UNAM Pumas.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - played the entire match but lost 3-0 at Toluca.

CONCACAF

International Friendly Match & Score:

-Wed Mar 3

Netherlands v USA

El Salvador v Guatemala - in Los Angeles CA

Chile v Costa Rica

Venezuela v Panama

Mexico v New Zealand - in Pasadena CA

Turkey v Honduras

ENGLAND

Barney Ronay of the Guardian gives us Five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (28 of 38 games played)

61 Chelsea

60 Manchester United

58 Arsenal

49 Tottenham

49 Manchester City (27 games played)

- - - - -

48 Liverpool

45 Aston Villa (26 games played)

dN

FA CUP

Replays of tied Round of 16 games:

-Wed Feb 24

Aston Villa 3-1 Crystal Palace

Stoke City 3-1 Manchester City

West Brom 2-3 Reading

Tottenham 4-0 Bolton

Quarterfinals

-Mar 6 & 7

Chelsea v Stoke City

Fulham v Tottenham

Reading v Aston Villa

Portsmouth v Birmingham

SPAIN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian tells us about the recent brilliance of Atletico, the absurdity of a referee and the weekend in the Liga.

dN

Top La Liga Team Standings (24 of 38 games played)

61 Barcelona

59 Real Madrid

46 Valencia

43 Sevilla

- - - - -

40 Mallorca

38 Deportivo La Coruna

37 Athletic Bilbao

FRANCE

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Patrice Evra of France and Manchester United.

dN

Top Ligue 1 Team Standings (26 of 38 games played)

51 Bordeaux (24 played)

51 Montpellier

49 Lyon

- - - - -

48 Marseille (25 played)

47 Lille

45 Auxerre

GERMANY

Oh no Leverkusen. They choked away the league lead that they have held for most of the season. After only managing a scoreless draw at home to Koln, they watched Bayern win 1-0 over Hamburg and vault into the new #1 spot. I would think that Bayern will roll to the title from here. Any else will be a shock.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on Franck Ribery leading Bayern Munich to the top of the charts, and the rest of the weekend in the Bundesliga.

dN

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (24 of 34 games played)

52 Bayern Munich

50 Bayer Leverkusen

48 Schalke

- - - - -

40 Hamburg

39 Dortmund

38 Werder Bremen

ITALY

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian tells us about the new Buffon, and the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

dN

Top Serie A Team Standings (26 of 38 games played)

58 Inter

54 Milan

51 Roma

43 Palermo

- - - - -

41 Juventus

41 Napoli

40 Sampdoria

COPA LIBERTADORES

The Group Stage is off this week for national team games.

dN

Standings (6 Rounds):

Grupo 1 (1 played)

3 Corinthians (Brazil)

1 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay)

1 Independiente Medellin (Colombia)

0 Racing Club (Uruguay)

Grupo 2 (2 played)

6 Once Caldas (Colombia)

3 Sao Paulo (Brazil)

0 Monterrey (Mexico)

0 Nacional (Paraguay)

Grupo 3 (2 played)

6 Alianza Lima (Peru)

3 Estudiantes de la Plata (Argentina)

3 Juan Aurich (Peru)

0 Bolivar (Bolivia)

Grupo 4 (3 played)

7 Libertad (Paraguay)

7 Universitario (Peru)

3 Lanus (Argentina)

0 Blooming (Bolivia)

Grupo 5 (1 played)

3 Cerro (Uruguay)

3 Internacional (Brazil)

0 Deportivo Quito (Ecudador)

0 Emelec (Ecuador)

Grupo 6 (2 played)

6 Banfield (Argentina)

4 Club Nacional (Uruguay)

1 Morelia (Mexico)

0 Deportivo Cuenca (Ecudador)

Grupo 7 (2 played)

6 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

3 Cruzeiro (Brazil)

3 Colo Colo (Chile)

0 Deportivo Italia (Venezuela)

Grupo 8 (1 played)

3 Flamengo (Brazil)2

3 Universidad de Chile (Chile)

0 Caracas FC (Venezuela)

0 Universidad Catolica (Chile)

PODCASTS/VIDEOCASTS

Last week at EPL Talk they had an audio interview with a big du Nord favorite, Tim Vickery, who writes about Brazil for both Sports Illustrated and the BBC. Download or listen here.

ENDERS

International Friendlys for viewing in America:

-Wed Mar 3

Greece vs Senegal - 9:00am Central on ESPN360.com

Hungary vs Russia - 12:30pm Central on ESPN360.com

Germany vs Argentina - 1:30pm Central on GolTV

Poland vs Bulgaria - 1:30pm Central on ESPN360.com

Belgium vs Croatia - 1:45pm Central on ESPN360.com

France vs Spain - 2:00pm Central on ESPN360.com

Portugal vs China - 2:45pm Central on ESPN360.com
