It's Day 146 of 2017.

Down goes Dallas! Down goes Dallas! [said in Howard Cosell voice]

Chicago won their 4th straight and became the 1st to beat Dallas this season.

Dallas paid the price for rest almost all of their regulars (only 2 or 3 on the field.)

The Fire now have the same amount of wins this year as in all of last year.

dN

Four big rivalry games in MLS this weekend!!! (see details below)

Seattle-Portland

Red Bulls-New England

San Jose-LA

Dallas-Houston

dN

Congrats to former Minnesota Thunder, Stars and United executive Djorn Buchholz who has been hired as the executive director for the new National Soccer Hall of Fame in Frisco TX.

dN

LIGA MX Clausura Liguilla

Tigres roared back to salvage a home tie on 2 late goals by superstar Andre-Pierre Gignac.

Match report on a great one. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

There is no "away goals" tiebreaker in the Finals.

Final Schedule/Results:

Leg 1

-Thu May 25

Tigres 2-2 Guadalajara

Leg 2

-Sun May 28

Guadalajara v Tigres (2-2) - 6:00pm CT on Univision Deportes

Lobos BUAP from Puebla has earned promotion from the 2nd division next season. It will be their first time in the modern era of Liga MX.

dN

Four Big Euro League Cup Finals on Saturday:

-FA Cup Final

Arsenal v Chelsea - 11:30am CT on FOX

-DFB Pokal Final

Eintracht Frankfurt v Borussia Dortmund - 1:00pm CT on ESPN3

-Copa Del Rey

Barcelona v Deportivo Alaves - 2:30pm CT on ESPN3

-Coupe De France

Angers v Paris St Germain - 2:00pm CT on beIN

dN

English Championship Division Promotion Playoffs Final:

-Mon May 29

Reading v Huddersfield Town - 9:00am on beIN Sports

dN

An interview with Christian Pulisic as his historic season in Germany, especially with the bombing of the team bus, comes to a close. By Nick Ames for the Guardian.

dN

Is there really any surprise at all that FIFA has big issues confronting them in Russia? Aaaaaah, no. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

Nothing will actually be done about any of these issues. Its all talk, like everything having to do with FIFA changes.

dN

Long Strange Trip - trailer for a 4 hour film on the Grateful Dead in never before seen footage and interviews.

dN

Reminder: du Nord Music Mix Vol 125 (download + extract)

dN

RIP to the great + challenging writer Denis Johnson. If you are up for some heavy reading and some hardcore gritty truth this is your place.

Jesus' Son

Resuscitation Of A Hanged Man

Angles

Tree Of Smoke

I went to hear him speak at the my University a couple years ago. A real gentleman. Made me wonder where "that" stuff is stored in his head.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

The head coach sits down for another long interview with the local news. [VIDEO] By Eric Perkins for KARE 11.

The coach says team is hoping to add players when the next transfer opens on June 10.

Francisco Calvo out of KC game due to intl call up, and stadium opening moved to 2019 (I have figured on that for 6 months now.) By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Johan Venegas did get called up by Costa Rica as well.

You have to assume that Kevin Molino is getting called in for Trinidad + Tobago, but when?

Next Up:

-Sat May 27

Minnesota v Orlando - 7:00pm CT on My29

dN

MLS

Nikolic and Accam both scored again for Chicago - 4 wins in a row, 11 goals for Nikolic and 7 for Accam. Hottest duo in the league, by far.

Nikolic also had a penalty saved at the end of the game.

What aren't FC Dallas and Houston Dynamo more popular in Texas and this derby a HUGE deal? By Tom Dart for the Guardian.

A run-of-the-mill bread-and-butter sports writer goes to an Atlanta United game and is blown away by the experience. By Will Leitch for Sports On Earth. Thanks to Joe for the link.

Week 13 schedule/results:

(11 games)

-Thu May 25

Chicago 2-1 Dallas

-Fri May 26

Toronto v Columbus

-Sat May 27

Seattle v Portland - 1:30pm CT on FOX

Vancouver v DC

New York RB v New England

Colorado v KC

Minnesota v Orlando - 7:00pm CT on My29

Salt Lake v Philadelphia

San Jose v LA - 9:00pm CT on Univision

-Sun May 28

Atlanta v New York City - 4:00pm CT on ESPN

Dallas v Houston - 7:00pm CT on FS1

-Montreal are off this week.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

David Wagner is one game away from managing Huddersfield town in the English Premier League. His rise from Mainz and Dortmund to England has been impressive. BY Kristan Heneage for Unibet.

Danny Williams will take the field for Reading against Wagner in this huge ($$$) game.

The promotion playoff final is on Monday. (see schedule above)

dN

Men's U20 World Cup - South Korea

If the USA were to finish 2nd in this group, then their Round of 16 opponent would be... yes, that's right, Mexico!

USMNT - Group F - Schedule/Results:

-Mon May 22

USA 3-3 Ecuador - USA goals by Josh Sargent(2) + Luca De La Torre.

Incheon Stadium

-Thu May 25

USA 1-0 Senegal - USA goal by Josh Sargent.

Incheon Stadium

-Sun May 28

USA v Saudi Arabia - 4:00AM CT on FS1

Daejeon Stadium

USA Roster

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown U, Brady Scott - De Anza Force

D: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City, Auston Trusty - Philadelphia Union

M: Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Luca De La Torre - Fulham, Derrick Jones - Philadelphia Union, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Lagos Kunga - Atlanta United, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - unaffiliated, Josh Sargent - St. Louis Scott Gallagher Missouri, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake

C: Tab Ramos

Group F Standings:

4 USA (+1)

3 Sengal (+1)

3 Saudi Arabia (-1)

1 Ecuador (-1)

In the knockout stage the winner of Group F will play the #2 of Group E which as of right now is New Zealand.

The tournament.

dN

My columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
