It's Day 109 of 2017.

Fabled Mexican football star Cuauhtemoc Blanco became the mayor of Cuernavaca last year, but is now being accused of ordering an assasination. He also said he and his family are in great danger.

Article in Spanish by Hector Raul Gonzalez for Aristegui Noticias.

dN

Its near chaos in the stands in the French Ligue 1 as fans are revolting in a big big way at several stadiums. Supporters of Bastia, Marseille and PSG are the main culprits. By Adam White and Eric Devin for the Guardian.

Marseille supporters made tifo targeting the Ligue 1 administration, Ligue de Football Professionnel aka LFP:

⚽️ Au Vélodrome, les fans de l'OM ont un message pour la #LFP... #OMASSE pic.twitter.com/swbgSWEerB

— B3infos (@B3infos) April 16, 2017

dN

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE FINAL

Pachuca took a lead in just the 3rd minute but could not hold it and the game ended tied.

Advantage Tuzos! Pachuca goes home for the 2nd Leg with a road goal and tie score.

The belief in Pachuca among the national English language press is so low that I couldn't find an article on the game.

1st Leg

-Tue Apr 18

Tigres UANL 1-1 Pachuca Tuzos - Tig goal by Ismael Sosa. Pac goal by Raul Lopez.

---

2nd Leg

-Wed Apr 26

Pachuca v Tigres (1-1)

dN

"The best meal I have ever had." AKA, What's New Pussycat? [VIDEO]

dN

Integer: du Nord Music Mix 120 (download + extract)

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

5 of the next 6 MNUFC games are at home:

Sun Apr 23 v Colorado

Sat Apr 29 v San Jose

Sun May 7 v Kansas City

Sun May 21 v LA

Sat May 27 v Orlando

Injury update. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

When healthy the Schuller experiment at left midfield looks like it will continue, said Heath: "We didn't have him long enough [in that position]. It would be nice to see it longer..."

UP NEXT:

-Sun Apr 23

Minnesota v Colorado - 5:00pm CT on My29 + Altitude

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Madrid sends 2 teams to the Semifinals, whereas England sends 0.

Honestly, Bayern Munich has too many old players out there. By Stefan Bienkowski for the Independent.

Bayern and Germany star goalkeeper Manuel Neuer suffer a broken left foot near the end of the game, to make matters that much worse. He is expected to be out for 2 months, so the rest of the season and then some.

We all know that many people around the world are turned off by Cristiano Ronaldo, but why do so many Real Madrid fans dislike their star player? All he does for them is win big. By Sid Lowe for the Guardian.

Leg 2

-Tue Apr 18

Real Madrid 4-2 Bayern - RM advances 6-3 on aggregate.

Leicester 1-1 Atletico Madrid - AM advances 2-1 on aggregate.

-Wed Apr 19

Barcelona v Juventus (0-3

Monaco v Dortmund (3-2)

The draw for the Semifinal pairings will be held on Friday morning (European time.)

dN

MLS

LAFC is out to set new standards and a new high bar for MLS teams. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

RBNY and Dallas are the two best teams in MLS at youth development. What are their philosophy's? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Jim Curtain of Philly Union sits at the top of the du Nord MLS Coaches Hot Seat Power Rankings right now. What does his boss Earnie Stewart have to say? By Matthew DeGeorge for Delco Times.

The best of the new young first year as a pro players in MLS. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

Some really interesting finds on this list.

What does Mexico head coach Juan Carlos Osorio think of MLS these days? By Scott French for Four Four Two.

A little more Week 7 analysis with a different angle from a familiar face to Minnesota supporters. By Jeb! Brovsky for the Howler.

Week 8 Schedule/Results:

-Wed Apr 19

New England v San Jose

-Fri Apr 21

Toronto V Chicago

-Sat Apr 22

Philadelphia v Montreal

Houston v San Jose - 3:00 CT on UniMas

Portland v Vancouver

New England v DC

NYRB v Columbus

Dallas v Kansas City

Salt Lake v Atlanta

-Sun Apr 23

NYC v Orlando - 12:30 CT on FS1

LA v Seattle - 3:00 CT on ESPN

Minnesota v Colorado

dN

Can somebody bring the Fort Lauderdale Strikers back from beyond the grave, AGAIN? By Jake Nutting for Empire of Soccer.

dN

USMNT

Who's up and who's down at their clubs for the USMNT player pool. By Doug McIntyre for ESPNFC.

The name Christian Ramirez makes an appears!

dN

Small but sorta-famous London club Leyton Orient has been run into the ground by current owners and the employees (who haven't been paid in a while) have released this statement about the current atmosphere of the organization:

Please read and share this statement by the staff at Orient..they need all the help they can get. #lofc pic.twitter.com/24uYgfQoTH

— James Masters (@Masters_JamesD) April 19, 2017

The Bird Is The Word
