-I have discovered the problem with Chivas USA. All it took was looking to Guadalajara Chivas for the answers, seeing as they are the mothership and all that crap. And I got an answer quickly. For starters, they can't send anyone very good north, cuz they aint got much down south. And second, actually worst of all, the south team has seriously insulted the soccer gods. I don't mean some minor namby pamby insult either. A death blow should be in order from the gods for this one. Here is the offense: Guade employs a clown to play for them. Yes a literal clown. The circus type. Have you seen their midfielder named Bofo? What a name for a clown. Brilliant. He is bald, so he paints his head. I'm not kidding. He flops around a lot, and has that sad clown face most of the time. And wearing the red and white stripes with the blue shorts has clown uniform written all over it. Best of all, he wears the number 100! Here is pic of Bofo The Clown (it's not very good, but its the best I could find, and you can kinda see the paint on his head). Wouldn't it be cool if he wore oversized bright red shoes?! So having pissed off the soccer gods completely, we now know why Chivas USA is so bad, and why they will surely set the low points record and be named the new "worst" MLS team of all-time once this year ends.

-U17 World Championship begins this week in Peru. Here are the Team USA details (games and roster).

-Our man McBride scored again for Fulham as they tied Newcastle 1-1. Michael Owen did not score, but Carlos Bocanegra tackled him really hard and earned a yellow for his efforts.

-Brian Ching story/history update thingy.

-MLS Weekend Burners (scores, table, goal leader):

Week 24 winners & losers:

New E 3-1 Columbus

KC 0-1 Metro

Dallas 1-2 DC

San Jose 3-0 Chivas

LA 4-1 Colorado

Single table:

51 New England

50 San Jose

44 DC United

42 Kansas City

42 Chicago

38 Los Angeles

37 Metrostars

36 FC Dallas

31 Colorado

30 Columbus

19 Real Salt Lake

14 Chivas USA

Golden Foot:

14 Taylor Twellman

12 Jaime Moreno

11 Landon Donovan

11 Jeff Cunningham

11 Carlos Ruiz

-Glenn Davis lays down the boogie in the Houston Chronicle on how Coach Arena finalizes a team for the World Cup next summer.

-Chelsea is 5-0-0. Damn!

-Looks like Thierry Henry has a pretty bad groin injury and could be out a month to six weeks. Damn again! Les Arse & Les Bleu could be in trouble.

-My Mighty Minnesota Thunder have just finished their worst ever season in professional football. Sad. The coach called it quits after 16 years at the helm too. They finished 10th in a 12 team league. Rough. Here are the 6 teams in the USL First Division who are going to now vie for the league crown. (Montreal are the reigning champs, and they are very good):

Montreal - first round playoff buy

Rochester - first round playoff buy

Vancouver

Seattle

Portland

Richmond

-Tony Meola still gets his haircut by his dad. No wonder he looks like that.

-Dema Kovalenko and Dallas don't like each other. Shocker! Here is what Dema had to say about Dallas after playing them last Saturday: "I hate this team, man." And what does Dallas coach Colin Clarke think of Kovalenko?: "We've got a history. Mostly because of one player...." Excellent.

-MFL scores & table:

Cruz Azul 5-3 Atlante

Monterrey 1-1 Pumas

Morelia 3-1 Toluca

Veracruz 0-5 Tigres

Necaxa 4-3 Santos

Atlas 2-1 Tecos

San Luis 4-1 Dorados

Pachuca 5-1 Chiapas

America 0-0 Guadalajara

Single Table:

18 Cruz Azul

17 America

13 Tigres

12 Necaxa

11 Pachuca

11 Toluca

11 Monterrey

10 Morelia

9 San Luis

9 Guadalajara

9 Veracruz

9 Pumas

7 Tecos

7 Santos

6 Atlas

5 Atlante

4 Dorados

4 Chiapas

-Rob Hughes on Real Madrids supposed woes & technology: Beep of the future, too late for Real

-The UEFA Champions League group stage kicks off tomorrow. Should be some great matches taking places. Here is this weeks line up and tv viewing in the US (thanks to the legendary soccertv.com):

Champions League Match Day 1

Tuesday:

PSV v Schalke

Milan v Fenerbahçe

Lyon v Real Madrid

Olympiacos v Rosenborg

Betis v Liverpool

Chelsea v Anderlecht

Artmedia v Inter

Rangers v Porto

Wednesday:

Brugge v Juventus

Rapid v Bayern

Arsenal v Thun

Sparta v Ajax

Bremen v Barcelona

Udinese v Panathinaikos

Benfica v Lille

Villarreal v Man United

On TV:

Real Betis v Liverpool - Tue Sep 13 01:30PM Central ESPN2

Villarreal vs Manchester United - Wed Sep 14 01:30PM Central ESPN2

-ADDITION: Taylor Twellman of New England scored 3 in the win over Columbus on Saturday and was named MLS Player Of The Week.
