It's Day 103 of 2017.

Borussia Dortmund was not one bit happy about having to play a Champions League game 24 hours after being targeted by a terrorist bomb:

Dortmund played less than 24 hours after three explosions hit the team's bus.

Thomas Tuchel isn't happy with UEFA. https://t.co/Eki6lM9sw5 pic.twitter.com/cCYtYW3QqN

— ESPN FC (@ESPNFC) April 12, 2017

Nuri Sahin, player for Dortmund, tells us exactly how hard it was to play that game:

Nuri Sahin (@nurisahin): – It's hard to find the right words.@JanAageFjortoft pic.twitter.com/KTMPF3PTNI

— Viasat Fotball (@ViasatFotball) April 12, 2017

dN

Interview with former Minnesota United player Lance Laing, now with North Carolina, where he talks about his career, and eventually they get around to the 2016 season in Minnesota. (Starts at the 1 hour 13 minute mark.) By Neil Morris for the Inverted Triangle podcast on WRAL Sports Fan Radio. [AUDIO]

Very interesting hearing from a player that I always was a big fan of, but really struggled last year. At first he says he doesn't really want to talk about Minnesota, but after a bit of prodding he opens up.

dN

Big Boss Man Bruce Arena talks about upcoming (June) World Cup qualifiers, and the USA bid to host the tournament in 2026. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

Note on Fabian Johnson: His recovery from a hamstring injury is going slower than expected. Not good.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Dortmund got the score close in the end, but 3 away goals for Monaco will be hard to overcome.

Monaco was lead by 18 year old Kylian Mbappe. Scoring 2 goals. Remember that name.

A missed penalty kick and a red card doomed Bayern.

Atleti lead by the slimmest of margins after game 1.

2nd Leg matches are next week. And then we will be down to just 4.

Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

Leg 1

-Wed Apr 12

Dortmund 2-3 Monaco

Bayern 1-2 Real Madrid

Atletico 1-0 Leicester

Leg 2

-Tue Apr 18

Real Madrid v Bayern (2-1)

Leicester v Atletico (0-1)

-Wed Apr 19

Barcelona v Juventus (0-3)

Monaco v Dortmund (3-2)

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Going back to the tape on Loons game at Dallas. Trying to sort it all out. By Jeff Rueter for Fifty Five One.

Centerback Joe Greenspan made his first start for Pittsburgh, he is there on loan from Minn, going 90 minutes but losing 1-2 v Saint Louis.

Schedule/Results:

-Sat Apr 15

Houston Dynamo v Minnesota - 7:30pm CT on My29 in Twin Cities.

How has Houston performed at home this season:

(HINT: almost perfectly.)

Mar 4 Win - 2-1 v Seattle

Mar 11 Win - 3-1 v Columbus

Apr 1 Win - 4-1 Red Bulls

The players who scored against them are 3 of the best in the league: Clint Dempsy, Ola Kamara and Bradley Wright Phillps.

Erick Torres has scored 5 home goals, and at least 1 in each of the 3 home games.

Houston has made only 4 changes to its starting lineup over the 3 home games.

dN

Funny Business: du Nord Music Mix Vol 119 (download + extract)

dN

It really happened! Didier Drogba has signed to play for Phoenix in the USL. Seriously:

Can confirm...

.

.

.

.

.

The legend @didierdrogba is coming. https://t.co/YUPv5WRbNc

#RisingAsOne #Drogba2PHX #RaiseYourGame" pic.twitter.com/NPrBpBph2A

— Phoenix Rising FC (@PHXRisingFC) April 12, 2017

dN

MLS

As if Fanedno Adi of Portland wasn't already enough of a menace to defenses, he is still getting better. By Matt Pentz for Four Four Two.

Andrea Pirlo - good or bad for NYC? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

John Thorrington who is leading the building of the LAFC team, is yet another former player who has moved into management to come from the Alex Ferguson tree. Will Ferrell story too. By Chris Young for the Guardian.

Week 7 Schedule/Results:

-Fri Apr 14

Philadelphia Union v New York City - 6pm CT on ESPN

Vancouver Whitecaps v Seattle Sounders

San Jose Earthquakes v Dallas - 10pm CT on UniMas

-Sat Apr 15

Montreal Impact v Atlanta United

Orlando City v LA Galaxy - 1:30pm CT on FOX

Chicago Fire v New England Revolution

New York Red Bulls v DC United

Columbus Crew v Toronto

Houston Dynamo v Minnesota United - 7:3opm CT on My29

Colorado Rapids v Real Salt Lake

Portland Timbers v Sporting Kansas City

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Several Americans + Tijuana Tracker:

Results - Wed Apr 12 Won 0-1 at Queretaro

Note - A much needed win. Joe Corona (58 min) and Paul Arriola (full 90) both started. Micahel Orozco is out injured

Standings - with 4 games left they are still in 4th place, 3 points behind 1st

Up Next - Sat Apr 15 at Chiapas

The Bird Is The Word
