It's Day 223 of 2017.

Morocco declares bid to host 2026 World Cup. By Andrew Das for the New York Times.

dN

How did DC United get to such a spot that after years of barely spending any money on players they could cut loose in past few weeks to overhaul their roster so dramatically. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

Does Columbus finally look like a team that is ready to put up the resources to be great, it kinda looks like it. By Michael Arace for the Columbus Dispatch.

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

The Quarterfinals are all set with 3 teams from Argentina, 3 from Brazil, and 1 each from Bolivia and Ecuador.

#1 seed Atletico Mineiro was knocked out by minnows Wilstermann of Bolivia on a aggregate scoreline of 1-0.

#5 seed Palmeiras was the only other favorite eliminated in the Round of 16 - by the only other minnow left, Barcelona of Ecuador.

Quarterfinals Schedule:

Leg One

-Sep 12-14 (exact match dates TBA)

Wilstermann (Bol) v River Plate (Arg)

Barcelona (Ecu) v Santos (Bra)

Gremio (Bra) v Botafogo(Bra)

San Lorenzo (Arg) v Lanus (Arg)

Leg Two

-Sep 19-21 (exact match dates TBA)

River Plate (Arg) v Wilstermann (Bol)

Santos (Bra) v Barcelona (Ecu)

Botafogo (Bra) v Gremio (Bra)

Lanus (Arg) v San Lorenzo (Arg)

dN

A look through the summer transfer window for all 22 MLS teams. Grades for everyone. By Matthew Doyle for MLS.

Minnesota gets a less than satisfactory grade. As should be the case.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

NOTE: Minn is off this weekend. They were originally scheduled to play at Atlanta, but a delay in stadium opening has pushed the game back a few weeks.

Q + A with the big boss Dr Bill McGuire - from players, coach, and fans to stadium. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

A look at the scene in Columbus as Ethan Finlay departed the Crew. By Andrew Erickson for the Columbus Dispatch.

Various reports coming out of Columbus that the Crew will pay a portion of Finlay's salary. Not confirmed but from very trustworthy sources.

Lots of words on and from Ethan Finlay. By Ryan Tolmich for SBI.

dN

MLS

Who is in charge of the future for LA Galaxy and do they have a plan? By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

Both the Seattle (v KC) and Toronto (v Port) home games should provide some quality viewing this weekend.

Week 23 Schedule:

(10 games)

-Sat Aug 12

Seattle v Kansas City

Toronto v Portland

DC v Salt Lake

Columbus v Chicago

New York Red Bulls v Orlando

Dallas v Colorado

New England v Vancouver

Philadelphia v Montreal

Houston v San Jose

LA v New York City - 10pm CT on ESPN2

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Weston McKennie is confident that he will make an impact at Schalke this season. By Arch Bell for Marca.

Doubtful that we will see Kenny Saief suit up for the USA again this year as complications from a hernia surgery will see him out of action an additional 2 months. He got an infection. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

American head coach David Wagner will lead Huddersfield into the Premier League in England. What an opportunity. By Rob Stewart for Four Four Two.

dN

A preview of the Turkish Super Lig for 2017-18. By Emre Sarigul for the Guardian.

dN

GUARDIAN 2017-18 PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM PREVIEWS:

West Ham

West Bromich Albion

Watford

Tottenham

Swansea

Stoke City

Southampton

Newcastle United

Manchester United

Manchester City

Liverpool

Liecester City

Huddersfield

Everton

Crystal Palace

Chelsea.

Brighton + Hove Albion

Burnley

Bournemouth

Arsenal

dN

Opening Day Across Europes biggest leagues:

England - Aug 11

Netherlands - Aug 11

Turkey - Aug 11

Germany - Aug 18

Spain - Aug 18

Italy - Aug 19

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
