Some News for Tue Jan 11, 2010

STARTERS

Edson Buddle has signed with Ingolstadt in the German Bundesliga 2.

-This is the kind of player that MLS should have done everything possible to keep. But instead he is another player who walked away on a free transfer. And to the second to the worst team in the German second division. Sad.

dN

Oguchi Onyewu has left Milan on loan for the rest of the season to play for his old boss Michel Preudhomme at Twente in the Netherlands!

-Here's an article in the local newspaper Tubantia. (in Dutch)

dN

Its been a huge couple of days for Jonathan Spector at West Ham. On Saturday he scored the winning goal to send them to the next round of the English FA Cup, and today he set up both of his teams goals as they won 2-1 in the 1st leg of the English League Cup Semifinals!

dN

In a surprise to no one really, Lionel Messi has been named the winner of the 2010 FIFA Ballon D'or.

-Here is how the tabulation broke down, voter by voter. Very interesting to read. Thanks to Ethan for this.

-From the USA there were 3 voters and this is how they cast their ballots:

Carlos Bocanegra: 1 Xavi Hernandez, 2 Andres Iniesta, 3 Lionel Messi

Bob Bradley: 1 Xavi Hernandez, 2 Wesley Sneijder, 3 Lionel Messi

Paul Kennedy: 1 Xavi Hernandez, 2 Lionel Messi, 3 Wesley Sneijder

dN

The USA game v Chile later this month will NOT be available on English language TV. You will be able to see it in Spanish on Telefutura, and in English on the internet at ESPN3.com. But if you are like me and have Qwest internet you don't get ESPN3.com.

dN

Cobi Jones has left his assistant coaching position with the LA Galaxy to become the Associate Director of Soccer with the New York Cosmos. Big.

-The Cosmos appear more serious everyday about becoming that 20th team in MLS.

-Here's Cobi in a new shirt already.

dN

The Philadelphia Union gets a shirt sponsor, and its Mexican bread company Bimbo. Its supposedly worth $12 million for a four year deal.

STORY OF THE DAY

Thursday is the MLS SuperDraft in Baltimore.

dN

Vancouver has the first overall pick, with Portland going next.

dN

Vancouver has two first round choices, one of which they got from Toronto.

dN

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated previews.

dN

Roxanna Scott of USA Today does a Q & A with Akron head coach Caleb Porter who has 5 players eligible for the draft.

dN

The SuperDraft cherry-picking order for Round 1:

1 Vancounver Whitecaps FC

2 Portland Timbers

3 DC Untied

4 CD Chivas USA

5 Philadelphia Union

6 New England Revolution

7 Houston Dynamo

8 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (from TFC)

9 Chicago Fire SC

10 Sporting Kansas City

11 Seattle Sounders FC

12 Columbus Crew

13 New York Red Bulls

14 Real Salt Lake

15 San Jose Earthquakes

16 LA Galaxy corrected

17 FC Dallas

18 Colorado Rapids

dN

And here is the order for subsequent rounds 2 & 3.

TEAM USA

The annual January training camp for young and out-of season players with national team potential begins tomorrow Tue Jan 4 in Carson CA and ends with a friendly game on Sat Jan 22 at the Home Depot Center.

dN

Official team blog

-Q & A with fullback Anthony Wallace.

-Dax McCarty's second chapter from camp.

dN

Match & Score:

-Sat Jan 22

USA v Chile - 9pm Central on Telefutura & ESPN3.com.

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

dN

USA Roster

G:

Dominic Cervi - Celtic

Sean Johnson - Chicago Fire

Matt Pickens - Colorado Rapids

Nick Rimando - Real Salt Lake

D:

A.J. DeLaGarza - Los Angeles Galaxy

Sean Franklin - Los Angeles Galaxy

Omar Gonzalez - Los Angeles Galaxy

Ugo Ihemelu - FC Dallas

Zach Loyd - FC Dallas

Ryan Miller - Halmstads

Tim Ream - New York Red Bulls

Anthony Wallace - Colorado Rapids

Marvell Wynne - Colorado Rapids

M:

Eric Alexander - FC Dallas

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro

Sam Cronin - San Jose Earthquakes

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek

Jeff Larentowicz - Colorado Rapids

Dax McCarty - DC United

Brek Shea - FC Dallas

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Justin Braun - Chivas USA

Teal Bunbury - Sporting Kansas City

Yevgeni (Eugene) Starikov - Zenit/Tom Tomsk

Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

CHICAGO FIRE

The Fire has signed a really good one in attacking midfielder Daniel Paladini from the Carolina Railhawks. He was one of those rare 2nd division players who stepped on the field and made a big difference.

dN

They also signed Josip Mikulic a 24 year old centerhalf from NK Zagreb.

CD CHIVAS USA

New head coach Robin Fraser's first move was to release Salvadoran playmaker Osael Romero from the team.

COLUMBUS CREW

The Crew has signed forward Tommy Heinemann from Carolina of the second division.

-He is a more aggressive, less talented, dark haired version of Steve Lenhart.

FC DALLAS

Steve Hunt writing for MLSsoccer.com reports that fullback Heath Pearce is now fully recovered from the hamstring injury that cut short his season last year.

DC UNITED

The Washington Post with the latest on the team's struggles to find a permanent home stadium.

dN

DCU has signed a loan deal to acquire 24 year old defender (I don't know his preferred spot) Rodrigo Brasesco from Racing Club in Uruguay.

HOUSTON DYNAMO

Jose Ortiz of the Chronicle reports that the team has signed left midfielder Josue Soto from their academy.

SPORTING KANSAS CITY SC

Charles Gooch of the Star has an article and new photos from construction on the Sporks new stadium.

-"...but they have built in to the plans a design that would allow them to expand the seating to about 25,000. On the south end (where the roof dramatically slopes downward), they would take the roof off, extend the pillars (there's a built in place to do this) and extend the roof to a uniform height. About 7,000 more seats can be added this way."

LA GALAXY

LA has traded a 1st Round pick in the SUPPLEMENTAL Draft to acquire forward Adam Cristman from DC.

-Basically that's a 4th rounder.

NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION

The Revs filled a much needed hole at left fullback with the signing of French veteran Didier Domi from Olympicos.

-But is 32 too old for an outside back?

dN

Kyle McCarthy at MLSsoccer.com tells us more about the Revs 15 year old attacking prodigy Diego Fagundez.

NEW YORK RED BULLS

Thierry Henry is again training at Arsenal in London getting his old man ass in shape for preseason.

TORONTO FC

TFC lost outside midfielder Nicolas Lindsey for most likely the full season after he suffered a bad knee injury that will require serious surgery. The team signed him last year from their academy.

VANCOUVER WHITECAPS FC

The Caps hired former Chicago head & assistant coach Denis Hamlett as a new assistant coach on their staff.

NASL NEWS

The new team that will take the field in San Antonio for the 2012 season will be known as San Antonio Scorpions FC.

-With only 15 months until they kick off the team has nowhere to play, and no real prospects for home fields are obvious at this time.

COLLEGE SOCCER

Forward Darlington Nagbe of Akron won the 2010 Hermann Trophy given to the College Player Of The Year. Congrats to him. See him in MLS this season.

USA U20 TEAM

The team is holding another training camp right now (until the 13th) as they get closer to World Cup qualifying (early April.) This camp will run Jan 2-13 in Ft Lauderdale FL.

dN

Jamie Hill of Yanks Abroad tell us about centerback Sebastien Ibeagha.

Brian Sciaretta also of Yanks Abroad writes about two more players, Bobby Woods and Kelyn Rowe.

And finally, Sciaretta on the 21 roster spots available.

dN

Here is the roster.

G:

Cody Cropper - Ipswich Town

Zac MacMath - Maryland

Brian Sylvestre - Vancouver Whitecaps

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Estoril Praia

Greg Garza - Estoril Praia

Moises Hernandez - FC Dallas

Sacir Hot - Boston College

Sebastian Ibeagha - Duke

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Zarek Valentin - Akron

Korey Veeder - No team

Ethan White - DC United

M:

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Joe Gyau - Hoffenheim

Fabian Huerzeler - Bayern Munich

Sebastian Lletget - West Ham United

Alex Molano - Dinamo Zagreb

Moises Orozco - UANL Tigres

Dillon Powers - Notre Dame

Kelyn Rowe - UCLA

Conor Shanosky - DC United

Alex Zahavi - Maccabi Haifa

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Conor Doyle - Derby County

Omar Salgado - No team

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Jonathan Spector got the game winning goal again for West Ham!

dN

Great to see Mo Edu back on the field for Rangers.

dN

Game Action:

ENGLAND - FA Cup - 3rd Round

-Sat Jan 8

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - started and played 61 minutes as they won 6-2 v Peterborough United.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - in the goal as usual and they won 1-3 at Sheffield United.

Mike Grella - Leeds United - did not dress as they drew 1-1 at Arsenal.

Brad Guzan - Hull City - was not on the game day roster as they lost 2-3 v Wigan.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - went the distance as they drew 2-2 at Doncaster Rovers.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - still out with the thigh injury as they won 2-0 v York City.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance of a 1-5 win at Scunthorpe United.

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - on the bench but did not play as they won 6-2 v Peterborough United.

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - did not suit up as they won 1-3 at Sheffield United.

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - played the whole game getting a yellow card and losing 1-0 at Torquay United.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - went the distance and scored the first goal as they won 2-0 v Barnsley.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - went the full 90 but lost 0-1 v Leyton Orient.

-Mon Jan 10

Conor Doyle - Derby County - away from the team at USA U20 training camp as they lost 2-1 at Crawley Town.

-Tue Jan 11

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - did not dress as they lost 0-1 v Hereford United.

ENGLAND - League Cup - Semifinals - 1st Leg

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Tue Jan 11 went the distance setting up both goals as they won 2-1 v Birmingham. The return leg is on Wed Jan 26.

SCOTLAND - Scottish Cup - 4th Round

Mo Edu - Rangers - Mon Jan 10 came on as a sub in the 67th min and they won 3-0 v Kilmarnock.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Games Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Isaac Acuna - Queretaro - Fri Jan 7 on the bench as they drew 2-2 v Tigres UANL.

Daniel Antunez - Estudiantes Tecos - Fri Jan 7 started but came out in the 68th min as they lost 4-1 at Cruz Azul.

Jonathan Bornstein - Tigres UANL - Fri Jan 7 out injured as they drew 2-2 at Queretaro.

Edgar Castillo - Puebla - Sun Jan 9 started but was subbed out at half time as they drew 1-1 v Guadalajara.

Herculez Gomez - Pachuca - Sun Jan 9 came on as a sub in the 69th min as they won 0-2 at America.

Sonny Guadarrama - Atlante - Sat Jan 8 came on as a sub in the 65th min but they lost 2-1 at Santos Laguna.

Sammy Ochoa - Estudiantes Tecos - Fri Jan 7 was not on the game day roster as they lost 4-1 at Cruz Azul.

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - Sun Jan 9 went the full 90 getting a yellow card as they drew 1-1 at Puebla.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - Sun Jan 9 did not dress as they won 0-2 at America.

LIGA DE ASCENSO (2nd Div)

Marco Vidal - Leon - Sat Jan 8 was not on the game day roster as they drew 1-1 v Atlante II.

COPA CENTROAMERICANA

The 7 country Central American (UNCAF) championship starts this Friday, hosted by Panama.

dN

Panama won the 09 tourney.

dN

Group A

Belize

El Salvador

Nicaragua

Group B

Costa Rica

Guatemala

Honduras

These groups are a joke, with the two best teams (by far) in the region in the small group and the third team in that group being decent.

dN

Matches & Scores:

Group Stage

-Fri Jan 14

El Salvador v Nicaragua

Costa Rica v Honduras

Panama v Belize

-Sun Jan 16

Belize v El Salvador

Guatemala v Costa Rica

Panama v Nicaragua

-Tue Jan 18

Nicaragua v Belize

Honduras v Guatemala

Panama v El Salvador

Semifinal

-Fri Jan 21

A1 v B2

B1 v A2

Final

-Sat Jan 23

Winners

ENGLAND

Under immense pressure Liverpool manager Roy Hodgson resigned last week, and was replaced by legendary player Kenny Dalglish.

dN

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian wonders if Kenny Dalglish has the tactical acumen to be relevant in today's game.

dN

Gabriel Marcotti of the Wall Street Journal does not see Dalglish as having the goods to get the job done.

dN

LEAGUE CUP

Semifinals

1st leg

-Tue Jan 11

West Ham 2-1 Birmingham

-Wed Jan 12

Ipswich v Arsenal

2nd Leg

-Tue Jan 25

Arsenal v Ipswich

-Wed Jan 26

Birmingham v West Ham

SPAIN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian says Real Madrid were lucky winners, and the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

dN

And Sid Lowe writing for Sports Illustrated tells us why the run of dominance by Barca and Real Madrid will not come to an end any time soon.

dN

COPA DEL REY

Quarterfinals

1st Leg

-Wed Jan 12

Villarreal v Sevilla

Barcelona v Real Betis

-Thu Jan 13

Almeria v Deportivo la Coruna

Real Madrid v Atletico Madrid

ITALY

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Edindon Cavani's big game for Napoli and the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

dN

Inter has won both games under new head coach Leonardo, but still sit in 7th place and 11 points behind league leaders Milan. However, they have two games in hand and if they win both it would vault them up to 3rd place and just 5 points out. The next game is at home on Sat v Bologna.

SOUTH AMERICA

Tim Vickery of the BBC previews the CONMEBOL U20 Championship.

-Where tomorrow's stars are born.

ASIA

Asian Cup

Jan 7-29

Qatar

dN

Favorites Japan were held to a 1-1 draw by Jordan on Sunday in their opening game.

The other two favorites, Australia and S Korea, both won on Monday.

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Jan 7

Qatar 0-2 Uzbekistan - Uzb goals by Odil Ahmedov & Server Djeparov.

-Sat Jan 8

Kuwait 0-2 China - Chi goals by Zhang Linpeng & Deng Zhuoxiang.

-Sun Jan 9

Japan 1-1 Jordan - Jap goal by Maya Yoshida. Jor goal by Hassan Abdel Fattah.

Saudi Arabia 1-2 Syria - SA goal by Taisir Al Jassim. Syr goals both by Abdelrazaq Al Hussain.

-Mon Jan 10

India 0-4 Australia - Aus goals by Tim Cahill(2), Harry Kewel & Brett Holman.

S Korea 2-1 Bahrain - SK goals both by Ja-Cheol Koo. Bah goal by Fawzi Mubarak.

-Tue Jan 11

N Korea 0-0 UAE

Iraq 1-2 Iran - q goal by Younis Mahmoud. n goals by Gholamreza Rezaei & Iman Mobali.

-Wed Jan 12

Uzbekistan v Kuwait

China v Qatar

-Thu Jan 13

Jordan v Saudi Arabia

Syria v Japan

-Fri Jan 14

Australia v S Korea

Bahrain v India

-Sat Jan 15

Iran v N Korea

UAE v Iraq

-Sun Jan 16

China v Uzbekistan

Qatar v Kuwait

-Mon Jan 17

Jordan v Syria

Saudi Arabia v Japan

-Tue Jan 18

Australia v Bahrain

S Korea v India

-Wed Jan 19

UAE v Iran

Iraq v N Korea
