STARTERS

Jose Mourinho's new contract to coach Inter is reported to be just under 14 Million Euros per season, with incentives it could go up to 15.4Million. In today's US Dollars that is 19.5M to 21.5M. Insanity!

dN

Michael C Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune tells us that a donor match has been found for the wife of RSL midfielder Andy Williams. Marcia Williams was diagnosed with a rare strain of Leukemia. This is great to hear.

MLS

Week 11 Matches:

-Wed May 27

Columbus Crew 2-1 San Jose Earthquakes - CC goals by Guillermo Barros Schelotto & Eddie Gaven. SJE goal by Ryan Johnson.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 8,793

-Thu May 28

Chivas USA 2-3 Chicago Fire - CUSA goals by Paulo Nagamura & Maykel Galindo. CF goals by Cuauhtemoc Blanco(2 - both via PK) & Patrick Nyarko.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 20,379

-Sat May 30

New York Red Bulls v Colorado Rapids - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

New England Revolution v DC United - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Houston Dynamo v Toronto FC - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Seattle Sounders FC v Columbus Crew - 9:30pm Central on FSC

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Los Angeles Galaxy v Kansas City Wizards - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

San Jose Earthquakes v Real Salt Lake - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

-Sun May 31

Chicago Fire v FC Dallas - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

dN

EJECTIONS:

-Jesse Marsch - Chivas USA - 2 Yellow Cards

dN

I hate doing this but, again last night referee Tim Weyland went berserk with the yellow cards, handing them out like they were Hersey's Kisses. Come on dude. Talk to the players, settle them down, take control. Handing out card is not control. That’s like pulling out the belt every single time a kid does something wrong. Is you use it right, you rarely ever have to use it.

-Jesse Marsch did not deserve to be tossed from that game last night. Why? Because his first booking was not deserved. The second one, yes. First one, no.

Is it just me or did it seem like Chicago stole that game? Wow. It sure was fun to watch. End to end burners endure!

dN

Interesting - Houston Dynamo CEO Chris Canetti made a post on the teams official blog yesterday explaining exactly why they made a deal to acquire forward Dominic Oduro from New York. It's nice to see this openness with the fans.

dN

John Smallwood (how much crap does a guy take about a name like that - I would have changed it the day I turned 18) of the Philadelphia Daily News about the Union hiring of Peter Nowak to be their first head coach.

dN

The Philly Daily News talks to Union honchos about Nowak.

dN

The Toronto Globe & Mail reports that TFC will take on Real Madrid in a friendly on Fri Aug 7 at BMO Field. Real Madrid are willing to play on that fake turf, you ask? Oh no no, a grass field will be laid over the turf for this one game. Hahahahahahahaha.

dN

The New York Red Bulls site takes us inside their new stadium with their players seeing it for the first time. What did Juan Pablo Angel think: "This is by far the best stadium in this league."

-Here is the link to the stadium construction webcam again.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post talks to Red Bulls CEO Erik Stover who says there is no conflict with head coach Juan Carlos Osorio despite reports to the contrary.

dN

John Connolly of the Boston Herald talks to New England keeper Matt Reis who looks to be recovered from injuries and back into the teams first 11. The team also plans on having forward Taylor Twellman on their game day roster.

dN

Jose Romero of the Seattle Times writes about the Sounders big game for their head coach as they host his former team Columbus Crew.

-Same type of story from Don Ruiz at the Tacoma New Tribune. Also includes a team injury update.

dN

The Soccer 365 Grapevine reports that RSL fullback Chris Wingert is being offered around as trade bait. I thought he has been one of their steadier performers over the past couple of years.

dN

Chivas USA announced: "the signing of Cesar Zamora, an 18-year-old midfielder from Sylmar Ca, and a product of the Chivas USA Youth System, to a Developmental Contract." Very cool. That makes 3 players for them from their own youth set up.

dN

US Soccer gives us the audio of the Week 10 MLS Referee Review.

USL FIRST DIVISION

Weekend Matches:

-Fri May 29

Carolina RailHawks v Cleveland City Stars

Austin Aztex v Puerto Rico Islanders

-Sat May 30

Charleston Battery vCleveland City Stars

Rochester Rhinos v Montreal Impact

Portland Timbers v Vancouver Whitecaps

-Sun May 31

Minnesota Thunder v Puerto Rico Islander

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Here is a little stroll through history from a reader named Doug:

The L.A. Times runs a daily history blog of stories from past years. Today (May 28) they included stories about the USA v England international played in Los Angeles on May 28 1959. England won 8-1. Among those playing for England were Bobby Charlton, Billy Wright, Jimmy Greaves, Jimmy Armfield and Johny Haynes. The USA lineup included future hall-of-famers Adolph Bachmeier, Bill Looby, Ed Murphy and Al Zerhusen.

The blog page contains a pre-match story from the front page of the Times Sports section, a match report, and the reminiscences of an Englishman Peter Young (then a boy) who attended the match. There is also a link to Young's personal website which has a much more detailed write-up about the match and his impressions of the event.

I found it fascinating to read about this moment from our national team's history.

Thank you very much Doug!

dN

"Leaders in Football, the world's most exclusive football business event, taking place for the second time at Chelsea FC on 7th and 8th October 2009, is delighted to announce that Sunil Gulati, President of the USSF and Chairman of the USA 2018/2022 World Cup Bid Committee (will be a guest speaker). Other speakers are the event include: Jeremy Darroch, CEO of BSkyB; Jack Warner the President of CONCACAF; Andy Roxburgh, Technical Director, UEFA; Tim Leiweke, President and CEO of AEG and Lord Mawhinney, Chairman of The Football League."

dN

I encourage everyone involved in youth sports (participants, coaches, parents and even fans) to go check out this site We Play. I think they could do with some even better soccer resources, and maybe that is you.

TEAM AMERICA

The team is in Miami preparing for next weeks 2 big matches. They head to Costa Rica on Monday.

dN

Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald talks to Oguchi Onyewu.

dN

Official Blog

-The latest video report from practice in Miami.

dN

World Cup Qualifying Matches:

-Wed Jun 3

Costa Rica v USA - from Estadio Ricardo Saprissa in San Jose CR - 9pm Central on ESPN & Galavision

-Sat Jun 6

USA v Honduras - from Soldier Field in Chicago IL - 7pm Central on ESPN Classic & Galavision

dN

The USA U18 team in Portugal - Lisbon International Tournament

Match Schedule:

-Wed May 27

USA 1-0 Finland - USA goal by Gale Agbossoumonde.

-Thu May 28

USA 0-0 Germany

-Sat May 30

USA v Portugal

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Martin Rogers of Yahoo Sports on Tim Howard's desire to win the FA Cup on Saturday.

dN

Yanks Abroad talks to Maurice Edu who says he should be fine to play for Rangers on Saturday in their league cup final.

dN

Soccer 365 has an article on Americans who are executives in the world of European football.

dN

Jay DeMerit is in the cyber-business, or the dot.com business as they say - Check out his company: Songwhale

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Jose Francisco Torres went the full 90 for Pachuca in the 1st leg of the Mexican Primera final, but they lost 0-1 at Pumas in Mexico City.

MEXICO

Primera Clausura Liguilla Semifinals

1st Leg Match:

-Thu May 28

UNAM Pumas 1-0 Pachuca - UNAM goal by Dante Lopez.

2nd Leg Match (with 1st Leg score included)

-Sun May 31

Pachuca v UNAM Pumas (0-1) - 7pm Central on Telefutura

CANADA

The sale of GolTV Canada to Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment has been approved by the Canadian authorities. MLSE are the owners of Toronto FC.

CENTRAL AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN

Police have found the remains of the brother of Honduran star Wilson Palacios. His brother had been kidnapped, a Half-Million Dollar ransom was paid, but he was never released.

ENGLAND

"Premier League football will now be available via iTunes after a deal was agreed with IMG Sports Media whereby classic matches, goals of the season and season review programs from 2002-2007 will be made available. " - From Leaders In Football

EUROPE

Hernan Crespo has not signed for Fiorentina has I previously reported, but instead he is now a player for Genoa. Don't be surprised when Inter sign Diego Milito from Genoa to find out that Crespo was part of a swap deal between the two teams, with Ricardo Quaresma tossed into the mix as well.

dN

Leaders In Football has a report on a presentation given last fall by a UEFA executive concerning the federations self governance and influence from the European Union. Very insidery kinda stuff here.

dN

Paris St Germain has hired Valenciennes coach Antoine Kombouare as their new head man replacing Paul Le Guen.

dN

Chelsea has announced the signing of Russian midfielder Yury Zhirkov from CSKA Moscow.

dN

French Ligue 1

Title on the line in final weekend of season:

77 Bordeaux - final match: Sat May 30 at Caen

74 Marseille - final match: Sat May 30 v Stade Rennes

dN

Relegation battles:

Italian Serie A - 2 fighting over 1 drop spot

(1 game left to go - bottom three go down)

34 Bologna - final match: Sun May 31 v Catania

34 Torino - final match: Sun May 31 at Roma

- - - - -

30 Lecce

30 Reggina

Spanish La Liga - 5 fighting over 1 drop spot

(1 game left to go - bottom three go down)

42 Valladolid - final match: Sun May 31 at Real Betis

41 Getafe - final match: Sun May 31 at Racing Santander

41 Real Betis - final match: Sun May 31 v Valladolid

40 Osasuna - final match: Sun May 31 v Real Madrid

40 Sporting Gijon - final match: Sun May 31 v Recreativo Huelva

- - - - -

35 Numancia

33 Recreativo Huelva

French Ligue 1 - 5 fighting over 2 drop spots

(1 game left to go - bottom three go down)

39 Sochaux - final match: Sat May 30 at Grenoble

39 Le Mans - final match: Sat May 30 at Lorient

37 Caen - final match: Sat May 30 v Bordeaux

37 St Etienne - final match: Sat May 30 v Valenciennes

34 Nantes - final match: Sat May 30 v Auxerre

-- - - -

25 Le Havre - final match: Sun May 31

German Bundesliga - Promotion/Relegation playoff - 3rd from bottom in 1.Bundes faces off against 3rd from top 2.Bundes:

1st Leg Match

-Thu May 28

Energie Cottbus(1.B) 0-3 Nurnberg(2.B)

2nd Leg Match

-Sun May 31

Nurnberg v Energie Cottbus (3-0)

dN

Other Cup competitions around Europe:

Scottish Cup Final

-Sat May 30

Rangers v Falkirk

English FA Cup Final

-Sat May 30

Chelsea v Everton

DFB Pokal Final

-Sat May 30

Werder Bremen v Bayer Leverkusen

Taca de Portugal Final

-Sun May 31

Pacos de Ferreira v Porto

Ukrainian Cup Final

-Sun May 31

Vorskla Poltava v Shakhtar Donetsk

SOUTH AMERICA

Just 4 rounds left in the Argentine Clausura, and here are the team still mathematically in the running for the title:

31 Lanus - Next: Sat May 30 v San Lorenzo

30 Velez Sarsfield - Next: Sun May 31 at Gimnasia de Jujuy

29 Huracan - Next: Fri May 29 v Banfield

25 Colon - Next: Sat May 30 at Godoy Cruz

23 Estudiantes - Next: Sun May 31 at Tigre

23 River Plate - Next: Sun May 31 at Argentinos Juniors

21 Gimnasia La Plata - Next: Sun May 31 v Racing Club

20 Newell's Old Boys - Next: Fri May 29 v Arsenal de Sarandi

20 Godoy Cruz - Next: Sat May 30 v Colon

20 Racing Club - Next: Sun May 31 at Gimnasia La Plata

COPA LIBERTADORES

Here is the Quarterfinal match schedule:

1st Leg Matches:

-Wed May 27

Cruzeiro 2-1 Sao Paulo - Cruz goals by Leonardo Silva & Ze Carlos. SP goal by Washington.

Caracas 1-1 Gremio - Car goal by Gabriel Cichero. Grem goal by Fabio Santos.

-Thu May 28

Defensor 0-1 Estudiantes - Est goal by Leandro Desabato.

Palmeiras 1-1 Nacional - Palm goal by Diego Souza. Nac goal by Santiago Garcia.

2nd Leg Matches (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Wed Jun 17

Nacional v Palmeiras (1-1)

Sao Paulo v Cruzeiro (1-2)

Gremio v Caracas (1-1)

-Thu Jun 18

Estudiantes v Defensor (1-0)

There is now a 3 week break until the 2nd leg matches of the Quarterfinals are played.

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores

-Fri May 29

China 1-1 Germany - Chin goal by Hao Junmin. Ger goal by Lukas Podolski.

Belgium 1-1 Chile - Bel goal by Kevin Roelandts. Chil goal by Gary Medel.

Ireland v Nigeria

Wales v Estonia

-Sat May 30

Oman v Egypt

Jamaica v El Salvador

Cyprus v Canada

-Sun May 31

Ghana v Uganda

Japan v Belgium

Malawi v Rwanda

Bahrain v Congo

Qatar v Iraq

Kuwait v Vietnam

-Mon Jun 1

Uzbekistan v Bosnia-Herzegovina

China v Iran

ENDERS

Today's post is dedicated to Lord Humbert Sheepshanks IV.

It's been a long while since I spotlighted all the new blogs I added to the Fellow Freaks list, so here are the latest:

dN

Association Football Wilderness

Some People Are On The Pitch

The Orange Chair Chronicles

Chivas USA from the Stands

Ginge Talks The Footy

Twohundredpercent

Unprofessional Foul

Two Footed Tackle

Goalscoring Robot

The Fullback Files

Soccer Scene USA

The 24th Minute

Dynamo Planet

Footiebusiness

Soccer City FC

Match Fit USA

Match Pricks
