An Open Letter to USA fans from the US Soccer Federation .

To our U.S. Soccer fans,

After receiving several complaints about unacceptable behavior towards U.S. fans at the 2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup final at the Rose Bowl, we felt it was necessary to address this issue directly with our supporters. While this was not an event run by U.S. Soccer, and therefore U.S. Soccer did not control the logistics of the match, the safety and security of our fans at any match is our top priority. Since we received the initial complaints, we have been in contact with the tournament organizers to discuss the necessary steps that should be taken to improve the experience at future events. We also know the Rose Bowl has reached out to several of the affected fans to discuss the matter.

U.S. Soccer is committed to providing a positive, safe and enjoyable atmosphere at all U.S. national team events that we host. We can assure you that we will continue to take all the necessary steps to address any potential security issues.

This year, U.S. Soccer launched the Respect Campaign, which includes a number of initiatives to enhance the fan experience, particularly in the area of customer service. Through our in-game texting service, fans can anonymously report any concerns or issues and receive immediate feedback and action from dedicated U.S. Soccer and stadium personnel. We invite all of you to learn more about the Respect Campaign at ussoccer.com.

It is important to remember that the overwhelming majority of supporters who attend matches in the United States showcase their love and appreciation for the game in the right way. Having said that, let us be clear: we will not tolerate dangerous or inappropriate behavior from anyone, regardless of the team they support. We must not allow the issues from the Gold Cup to influence future conduct at our events. Our supporters have helped us earn a reputation of being one of the most fan-friendly nations in soccer, and we are committed to maintaining that standard.

Please continue to contact us with any questions or concerns you may have. Thanks again for all of your support. We look forward to hosting you at a U.S. Soccer event soon.

Sincerely,

Sunil Gulati

President, United States Soccer Federation
