It's Day 55 of 2017.

In a stunning move Turner Broadcasting and Univision have outbid Fox and NBC for UEFA Champions League rights starting in the 2018/19 season. By John Ourand for Sports Business Journal.

Gotta be a real gut punch to FS1 and their crew.

dN

Several teams have taken the same path as Minnesota United into MLS, from the second division. What did those teams do and what can we expect? By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Some first year bench marks for MNUFC to shoot for. Also by Greder.

What point total is Minnesota aiming for? Only 1 of the past 11 expansion teams have made the playoffs in season 1 - Seattle. So don't count on that happening. Notice that the #2 team on the list has a direct connection to MN. Here are the First Season Point Totals for the last 11 expansion teams: (pro-rated for 34 games)

53 Seattle '09

44 Orlando '15

42 Montreal '12

42 Portland '11

37 NYCFC '15

37 San Jose '08

35 Phila '10

28 Vancouver '11

28 Toronto '07

21 Salt Lake '05

19 Chivas '05

dN

Atlanta has crossed the 30,000 season ticket threshold. Incredible!

dN

American forward Bobby Wood was tight with Jurgen Klinsmann. So is he nervous about new coach Bruce Arena? Probably. By Andrew Keh for the New York Times.

dN

The big story of yesterday was Leicester City firing head coach Claudio Ranieri. An explanation of why. By Barney Ronay for the Guardian.

dN

To say David Villa is the anti-Steven Gerrard is putting it mildly:

David Villa spoke with @davisjsn on @SiriusXMFC about adjusting to travel in MLS compared to travel in Europe. pic.twitter.com/lrKhA5dT7B

— NYCFC Nation (@NYCFCNation) February 24, 2017

dN

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Yesterday I said that I thought Dallas could win this tournament, and their first Leg performance in the Quarterfinals did nothing to suppress that instinct. Of all 8 teams in the first game they were by far the most explosive looking. Powerhouse 4-0 win.

Kellyn Acosta, a player I think very highly of, scored the 2nd and 3rd goals. He is a defensive midfielder.

I still think Tigres is the favorite. They have a lot of experience in their team which will be valuable the longer they stay in the tournament.

Quarterfinal Matches:

1st Leg

-Thu Feb 23

Dallas(7) 4-0 Arabe Unido(2) - goals by Cristian Colman, Kellyn Acosta(2) + Michael Barrios.

2nd Leg

-Tue Feb 28

Pachuca v Saprissa (0-0)

-Wed Mar 1

Pumas v Tigres (1-1)

Arabe Unido v Dallas (0-4)

-Thu Mar 2

Vancouver v Red Bulls (1-1)

All games on Univision Deportes + CONCACAF Facebook

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

The final preseason game of the year takes place on Sunday against San Antonio near Orlando. No details are known on a start time or possible webstream or anything. (WTF?)

New MNUFC fullback Jerome Thiesson. Pronounced: Yuh-ROAM TEE-uh-son.

Here is a highlight reel of him playing both fullback spots. [VIDEO]

In Orlando for the final 2 preseason games:

-Wed Feb 22

MU 0-3 Toronto

-Sun Feb 26

MU v San Antonio (USL)

Training camp roster (28):

G: John Alvbage, Marco Carducci (trialist), Patrick McLain, Bobby Shuttleworth.

D: Francisco Calvo, Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Joe Greenspan, Brent Kallman, Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Thomas de Villardi (unsigned draft pick)

M: Bernardo Anor, Joshua Gatt, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Ismaila Jome, Bashkim Kadrii, Collin Martin, Kevin Molino, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Tanner Thompson (unsigned draft pick), Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, Christian Ramirez, Johan Venegas

dN

MLS

Chris Wondolowski is exactly the kind of teammate I would want. The fire still burns hot, but he knows the end isn't that far away. By Ben Valentine for Goal.

One of the most genuine journalists in American soccer is Michael Lewis who has launched a new soccer site this week: Front Row Soccer. Read it.

Lewis Formerly ran Big Apple Soccer.

@ColumbusCrewSC wear Yellow. @Saints wear Gold. pic.twitter.com/zFMzafoRqw

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) February 24, 2017

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

In the Europa League Round of 16 yesterday Fabian Johnson and Monchengladbach fell behind 3-0 to Fiorentina by the 28th minute of the 2nd Leg (1-0 from 1st) then came roaring back with 4 unanswered goals ON THE ROAD to take the series 4-3 on aggregate. What a comeback!

In the Quarterfinals Gladbach will be paired against fellow German squad Schalke, and host the 2nd Leg.

ADDITIONAL EUROPA LEAGUE NOTE: The big upset of the round was Belgian team Gent beating Tottenham. Gent will get another Belgian team in the next round - Genk. Yes, that's right, Gent v Genk!

The Terrence Boyd + Darmstadt Tracker:

Standings - Last place, 7 points below relegation + 4 points below playoff

Up Next - Sat Feb 25 v Augsburg

dN

USMNT U20s at the CONCACAF Championship and U20 World Cup qualifying

The heart of this USA team comes directly from the Real Salt Lake academy. 5 key players all came up through that system together. By Mike Woitalla for Soccer America.

Group B Matches:

-Sat Feb 18

USA 0-1 Panama

-Tue Feb 21

USA 4-1 Haiti

-Fri Feb 24

USA v St Kitts + Nevis at 4:30pm CT

-Games broadcast on Univision networks.

Group B Standings:

6 Panama (+5)

3 USA (+2)

3 Haiti (+1)

0 St Kitts + Nevis (-8)

Tournament runs until Mar 5 in Costa Rica.

USA roster:

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown

D: Marlon Fossey - Fulham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City, Auston Trusty - Philadelphia Union

M: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Coy Craft - Dallas, Luca De la Torre - Fulham, Jonathan Gonzalez - Monterrey, Jeremiah Gutjahr - Indiana U, Jonathan Lewis - New York City, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - Las Palmas

C: Tab Ramos

Group A: Mexico, Antigua + Barbuda, Honduras, Canada

Group B: USA, Panama, St Kitts + Nevis, Haiti

Group C: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Bermuda, Trinidad + Tobago

Tournament format: 3 initial groups. Top 2 from each group advances to a 2nd group stage consisting of 2 groups of 3. The top 2 teams in each of those groups advances to the U20 World Cup, and winners of those 2 groups playing for the CONCACAF Championship on Mar 3.

dN

LIGA MX

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Standings - 3rd Place, 3 points behind leader

Up Next - Fri Feb 24 v Monterrey

Big matches this weekend in Liga MX:

-Fri Feb 24

Tijuana v Monterrey - #3 v #4

dN

EUROPE

Biggest European matches this weekend:

-Sun Feb 26

Inter v Roma - #4 v #2

Atletico Madrid v Barcelona - #4 v #2

Villarreal v Real Madrid - #6 v #1

Marseille v Paris St Germaine - Le Classique, the biggest rivalry in France

The Bird Is The Word
