STARTERS

Note from US Soccer: "All four [Group B] teams traveled together (from Seattle to DC), as well as referees, CONCACAF officials, etc. Yes, on the same plane!"

ARGENTINA

We have a Clausura winner amid mass chaos!

dN

Match:

-Sun Jul 5

Velez Sarsfield 1-0 Huracan

Final Clausura standings:

40 Velez Sarsfield

38 Huracan

dN

Amazingly the championship race came down to two teams the final weekend of the Argentine season, and those 2 were matched against each other! What were the odds?

dN

Velez overtook Huracan on that last day, getting a win at home with a controversial goal in the 83rd minute. They had missed a Penalty Kick in the first half. The goal scorer Maximiliano Moralez was given his 2nd Yellow Card for celebrating the winning goal, and was ejected. Do you think he really cared at that point? I doubt it! The controversy stemmed from a collision between another Velez player and the Hura keeper seconds before the shot was taken to score the winner. Boy oh boy, it sure looked like a foul to me!

dN

See video of the dramatic game highlights.

CONCACAF GOLD CUP

Official Gold Cup Website

dN

Group Stage Matches

Matchday 1:

-Fri Jul 3

Canada 1-0 Jamaica - Can goal by Ali Gerba.

Costa Rica 1-2 El Salvador - CR goal by Warren Granados. ElS goals both by Osael Romero.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Sat Jul 4

Honduras 1-0 Haiti - Hon goal by Carlos Costly.

Grenada 0-4 USA - USA goals by Freddy Adu, Stuart Holden, Robbie Rogers & Charlie Davies.

Venue: Qwest Field – Seattle WA

-Sun Jul 5

Panama 1-2 Guadeloupe - Pan goal by Nelson Barahona. Guad goals by Loic Loval & David Fleurival.

Nicaragua 0-2 Mexico - Mex goals by Luis Miguel Noriega & Pablo Barrera.

Venue: Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum – Oakland CA

Matchday 2:

-Tue Jul 7

Jamaica v Costa Rica - 6pm Central

El Salvador v Canada - 8pm Central

Venue: Crew Stadium – Columbus OH

-Wed Jul 8

Haiti v Grenada - 6pm Central

USA v Honduras - 8pm Central

Venue: RF Memorial Stadium – Washington DC

-Thu Jul 9

Guadeloupe v Nicaragua - 7pm Central

Mexico v Panama - 9pm Central

Venue: Reliant Stadium – Houston TX

See all games on FSC & Univision/Galavision.

dN

Standings:

Group A

3 Canada(+1)

3 El Salvador(+1)

0 Costa Rica(-1)

0 Jamaica(-1)

Group B

3 USA(+4)

3 Honduras(+1)

0 Haiti(-1)

0 Grenada(-4)

Group C

3 Mexico(+2)

3 Guadeloupe(+1)

0 Panama(-1)

0 Nicaragua(-2)

TEAM USA GOLD CUP

USMNT Official Blog

dN

-Sat Jul 4

USA 4-0 Grenada - USA goals by Freddy Adu, Stuart Holden, Robbie Rogers & Charlie Davies.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Post game quotes by coach and players from US Soccer.

Match report from US Soccer.

Match report by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Player ratings by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Match report by Don Ruiz of the Tacoma News Tribune.

Match report by Jose Romero of the Seattle Times.

dN

du Nord 3(6) Stars of the Game

3. Freddy Adu/Stuart Holden/Charlie Davies - excellent offense, with lots of great attacking movement and passing, and all three got a goal.

2. Logan Pause/Kyle Beckerman - did a masterful job controlling the middle of the field for all 90 minutes by stopping any potential attacks, and starting all the USA offense. Pause even set up the third goal with a perfect long cutting pass to Rogers.

1. Robbie Rogers - played a near perfect game by setting up the first two goals, and then scored the third. Just what we needed to see from a left sided midfielder.

Grenada put up virtually no guard against the USA. It was a sad game for them, but a complete domination for the USA. Great start to the tournament.

dN

All 4 attacking starters for the USA got goals - both forwards and both attacking midfielders. That is the way you want to play.

dN

Grenada had only one shot on goal, which forced Troy Perkins into a strong save.

dN

Stuart Holden, Logan Pause and Brad Evans all got their first International cap for the USA.

dN

Starters:

G:

Troy Perkins

D:

Steve Cherundolo (Captain)

Chad Marshall

Clarence Goodson

Heath Pearce

M:

Stuart Holden

Logan Pause

Kyle Beckerman

Robbie Rogers

F:

Charlie Davies

Freddy Adu

Bench subs used:

Davy Arnaud (for Davies)

Brad Evans (for Cherundolo)

Michael Parkhurst (for Goodson)

Bench not used:

Kenny Cooper

Jay Heaps

Santino Quaranta

Luis Robles

Did not Dress:

Jon Busch (Chicago Fire),

Brian Ching (Houston Dynamo),

Colin Clark (Colorado Rapids),

Jimmy Conrad (Kansas City Wizards),

Sam Cronin (Toronto FC),

Provisional players not dressed:

Jozy Altidore

Jonathan Bornstein

Conor Casey

Ricardo Clark

Benny Feilhaber

Brad Guzan

Sacha Kljestan

dN

Team USA has added a player from the provisional list for the Honduras game - midfielder Benny Feilhaber.

dN

Next match:

-Wed Jul 8

USA v Honduras - 8pm Central on FSC

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

MLS

MLS Week 16 Matches & Scores:

-Fri Jul 3

Real Salt Lake 1-1 San Jose Earthquakes - RSL goal by Chris Leitch(OG). SJE goal by Arturo Alvarez.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium, Sandy UT

Attendance: 17,478

-Sat Jul 4

Columbus Crew 1-1 DC United - CC goal by Alejandro Moreno. DCU goal by Christian Gomez.

Venue: Crew Stadium, Columbus OH

Attendance: 14,370

Colorado Rapids 1-2 Chicago Fire - - CR goal by Andrew Peterson. CF goals by Marco Pappa & Wilman Conde.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park, Commerce City CO

Attendance: 19,680

Kansas City Wizards 0-1 Houston Dynamo - HD goal by Kei Kamara.

Venue: CommunityAmerica Ballpark, Kansas City KS

Attendance: 10,385

FC Dallas v New York Red Bulls - FCD goals both by Jeff Cunningham. NYRB goal by Juan Pablo Angel.

Venue: Pizza Hut Park, Frisco TX

Attendance: 14,327

Los Angeles Galaxy 1-0 New England Revolution - LAG goal by Alecko Eskandarian.

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

Attendance: 20,609

dN

EJECTIONS:

Fabian Espindola - RSL - Red Card

dN

FC Dallas forward Jeff Cunningham has been named Player Of The Week.

dN

The Colorado Rapids pulled off a rare coup this weekend and set an attendance record. 19,680. I know it was due to their annual Independence Day fireworks show, but it was a full house none the less. Too bad they got punked by the Fire.

dN

Alecko Eskandarian was sold to the LA Galaxy just this week, got his first start on Saturday and scored only 9 minutes into the game, to give his team a 1-0 win over New England. Welcome to your new team.

dN

Word has come to me that Yura Movsysian is nearing his end in MLS. He is said to be signing a pre-contract with Randers FC in Denmark. What is not known is whether they are buying him from the league or he is leaving when his current contract is done (I don't know when his contract expires though.) Let's see what happens. This would be a big loss for Real Salt Lake.

dN

Seattle has signed Costa Rican left fullback Leonardo Gonzalez from Liberia Mia. He had played his entire career until this past January at Herediano in CR.

dN

Former Colorado, Columbus & New England assistant coach John Murphy has a few words with the Scottish Sun about his new job as head coach of Livingston. Very cool for him. People all around the MLS really like this guy. A big problem remains though in that Livingston is broke, and money to keep the club alive does not appear to be at hand (Article from the BBC).

dN

The Oregonian on the Portland Timbers march toward MLS in 2011. This article is a little over the top with sensationalism.

dN

Jose Romero of the Seattle Times on their Sounders blog has words from the parents of Nate Jaqua who has been accused of rape.

dN

Top Goal Scorers:

10 Guillermo Barros Schelotto

8 Freddy Montero

8 Conor Casey

7 Kenny Cooper

RUMOR MONGERS OF THE WORLD UNITE

Do you want to see Bozo Bautista in MLS? He sure would be a nice distraction, but is he any good any more? 3 years ago would have been a lot better.

USL FIRST DIVISION

My Thunder fought their way back in a fairly miserable game to tie Portland 1-1 in second half stoppage time. Captain Jeremiah Bass, who got into the attack more than I have seen him this entire season, bagged the winner on a scramble after a corner kick in the games dying seconds. The team celebrated like it was the game winner. That shows you how rough this season has been. I felt great for the Captain who kills for this team through thick and thin.

dN

Big shout out to Aaron and his Missus who I met on Saturday night after the Thunder game.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Jul 3

Cleveland City Stars 0-1 Austin Aztex

-Sat Jul 4

Miami FC Blues 0-0 Puerto Rico Islanders

Minnesota Thunder 1-1 Portland Timbers

-Sun Jul 5

Rochester Rhinos 4-1 Austin Aztex

Montreal Impact 0-1 Charleston Battery

dN

Standings:

30 Charleston

29 Puerto Rico

27 Portland

24 Carolina

23 Rochester

17 Montreal

17 Miami

- - Out of Playoffs - -

15 Austin

15 Vancouver

10 Cleveland

8 Minnesota

dN

Thunder - Team Stats:

.62 Points Per Game

.85 Goals Scored Per Game

1.46 Goals Allowed Per Game

LAMAR HUNT US OPEN CUP

Quarterfinal Matches:

-Tue Jul 7

DC United v Harrisburg City Islanders

Venue: Maryland Soccerplex, Boyds MD

Rochester Rhinos v Wilmington Hammerheads

Venue: Marina Auto Stadium, Rochester NY

Charleston Battery v Houston Dynamo - 6:30pm Central on USLLive.com

Venue: Blackbaud Stadium, Charleston SC

Seattle Sounders FC v Kansas City Wizards

Venue: Starfire Sports Complex, Tukwila WA

dN

Semifinals to be played on Jul 21 & 22

Final to be played on Sep 2

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Former California Polytechnic State University & Ventura County Fusion defensive midfielder Anton Peterlin has signed the ultimate deal for a young American, and goes from no one to Everton! What a great story. His college paper the

Mustang Daily has the story.

dN

Oguchi Onyewu addes Porto to his list of suitors.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America with an article on the excellent 09 for Maurice Edu at Rangers, but the bad news of a summer ending knee injury. Via Sports Illustrated.

dN

Young forward Johann Smith has signed with Rijeka in Croatia.

dN

Kenya Brown of Yanks Abroad looks at the near future for several Americans and European teams.

ENGLAND

The Guardian on Michael Owen signing with Manchester United. Owen said, "I never really had it in my wildest dreams."

dN

The Guardian talks to former MLS exec and current Arsenal CEO Ivan Gazidis about the financial condition of his club.

AFRICA

World Cup Qualifying

Egypt 3-0 Rwanda

dN

Here are the African group standings.
