STARTERS

The du Nord 2010 MLS Best 11. See it here!

dN

What are the odds that in both France & Germany this weekend we see the exact same matchups: #1 v #2, and #4 v #3? How weird is that?

dN

Jozy Altidore bagged a goal for Villarreal on Wednesday in the Copa del Rey. I forgot to mention that yesterday.

dN

Stephen Brunt of the Toronto Globe & Mail reports that TFC has hired Jurgen Klinsmann as a "consultant."

-I wonder if they had to give him complete control.

MLS PLAYOFFS

Colorado barely holds on to win the first game of this years playoffs. For a team who play at high altitude they should have looked more dominant down the stretch, but it was Columbus who poured it on at the end and nearly got the tie.

For the second straight season Columbus coach Robert Warczycha made a baffling move with his star Guillermo Barros Schelotto. Last season he didn't play him in the first leg and paid for that mistake by being ousted at home in leg 2. Now this season he pulls him with over 20 minutes left to go, then watches his team turn up the effort and produce multiple corner and free kick opportunities at which Schelotto excels like no one else in the league. Wow. Will it cost them again?

Over all, that was one ugly game of soccer, but this series was lined up to look that way compared to the other 3.

Can someone remind me why Jeff Larentowicz is in a Colorado shirt and not a New England shirt.

dN

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Thu Oct 28

Colorado Rapids 1-0 Columbus Crew - CR goal by Pablo Mastroeni.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Attendance: 11,872

-Sat Oct 30

FC Dallas v Real Salt Lake - 4pm Central on FSC

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

San Jose Earthquakes v New York Red Bulls - 9pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

-Sun Oct 31

Seattle sounders FC v Los Angeles Galaxy - 7pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

GENERAL NEWS

Going on the same theme I spun yesterday that this is the best 8 teams MLS has ever had in the playoffs....

-Jonah Freedman of MLSsoccer digs in to the "Elite Eight."

COLORADO RAPIDS

John Meyer of the Denver Post with a match report of the Raps win.

COLUMBUS CREW

The Crew looked like a complete shambles out there. Until the very end when they started throwing ever

Shawn Mitchell of the Dispatch with a match report from the Crew's loss.

-More post game notes.

Emilio Renteria had minor knee surgery and is most likely out for the next game.

Danny O'Rourke is done for the season with a knee injury of his own.

USSF DIVISION 2 PLAYOFFS

Playoff Matches & Scores:

Final

Leg 1

-Sun Oct 24

Puerto Rico Islanders 2-0 Carolina RailHawks - PRI goals by Sandy Gbandi & Jonathan Fana.

Leg 2

-Sat Oct 30

Carolina RailHawks v Puerto Rico Islanders (0-2)

NOTE: series winners are determined by total goals. There is NO away goals tie breaker.

SCANDAL: BIDDING TO HOST WORLD CUP 2018 & 2022

The Leader with an opinion piece on why Sepp Blatter is uncontested from within his organization.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES COMING UP THIS WEEKEND

Lots of league leaders facing off.

We could see a change at the top of the Bundesliga as the top 2 face off, and then the next 2 face off.

And and even tighter race in France sees the same match ups as in Germany.

Matches & Scores:

-Fri OCt 29

Bursaspor v Fenerbahce - Fener tries to chase down the defending champs and current #1.

-Sat Oct 30

Milan v Juventus - both have points to prove, and Juve is on the ropes.

Marseille v Rennes - #2 hosts #1

Brest v St Etienne - #4 v #3

PSV v Twente - #1 v #2

-Sun Oct 31

Mainz v Borussia Dortmund - #1 v #2

Hoffenheim v Hannover - #4 v #3

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

CD CHIVAS USA

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America wonders who Chivas USA will turn to now as their head coach.

-Whoever gets the job should know that he will be the team's 6th coach already.

ENDERS

I was the subject of a Q & A this week conducted by LE Eisenmenger of the Examiner. It comes in two parts:

Part 1

Part 2
