STARTERS

Will you be in Toronto for MLS Cup? Let me know so we can meet up! Can't wait to get to Toronto!

-And I am co-hosting a hopefully very rockin' party on Friday night too.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch reports that the Crew has told star player Guillermo Barros Schelotto that it will not be renewing his contract.

-Frankie Hejduk could be out the door as well.

-A few words from Schelotto. He is surprised by the move.

-Michael Arace of the Dispatch on the probable scenario where both Guillermo Barros Schelotto and Frankie Hejduk are gone from the team for next season.

-Bob Hunter of the Dispatch calls Schelotto an elite in the cities sports history.

-Could this be a way to lower his price. Or is he really gone. It feels like the latter.

-Mitchell says that the team also did not renew 3 veteran player's contracts: Hejduk, Duncan Oughton and Gino Padula.

dN

A great new website has been formed north of the border - Canadian Soccer News. They launched yesterday, and brings together some of the best blogs covering soccer anywhere in North America - It's Called Soccer, The 24th Minute, Onward Soccer, Some Canadian Guys, Le12eJoueur, Vancouver Insider, Euro File and Voyageurs.

dN

What is this all about? bignewsforkc.com It means that as of tomorrow there will be no more Kansas City Wizards. The team will be renamed to Sporting Kansas City SC.

-Mike of Down the Byline tells us all about it.

-The Kansas City Business Journal also writes about the name change.

-And this is the new badge (Thanks to JC for the image):

dN

US Soccer is still taking nominees for their 2010 Best Ofs. The 4 categories are: Best Soccer Blog, Best Soccer Bar, Best Soccer Specialty Store and Best Fan Costume. Nominations end on Friday.

OFFICIAL MLS BEST 11

All indications point to David Ferreira of FC Dallas being named the league's Most Valuable Player on Friday.

dN

The 2010 Best 11

G:

Donovan Ricketts - Los Angeles Galaxy

D:

Jamison Olave - Real Salt Lake

Omar Gonzalez - Los Angeles Galaxy

Nat Borchers - Real Salt Lake

M:

David Ferreira - FC Dallas

Dwayne De Rosario - Toronto FC

Sebastein LeToux - Philadelphia Union

Javier Morales - Real Salt Lake

Landon Donovan - Los Angeles Galaxy

F:

Edson Buddle - Los Angeles Galaxy

Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes

MLS PLAYOFFS

Current Toronto Forecast:

-Fri - high of 46, low of 37, partly cloudy

-Sat - high of 46, low of 32, mostly cloudy

-Sun - high of 48, low of 40, cloudy

dN

Final

Match & Score:

-Sun Nov 21

Colorado Rapids v FC Dallas - 7:30pm Central on ESPN.

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

dN

GENERAL NEWS

John Molinaro of the CBC previews the title game.

dN

Nigel Reed also of the CBC sees the potential for a real classic in the championship match.

dN

Brian Straus of Fanhouse takes an early look at the 2 opponents.

COLORADO RAPIDS

Left midfielder Jaime Smith is suffering from both hamstring and calf muscle injuries, and is only probably for the Final right now.

FC DALLAS

Steve Hunt of the Morning News on coach Schellas Hyndman and the 2 players he coach at SMU on his current roster.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

In his State of the League address today commissioner Don Garber gave us more news on (all info below is from MLSsoccer.com):

Youth development projects: Teams can now sign an unlimited number of homegrown players per season while rosters sizes will expand to 30 players. Six of the roster spots will be reserved for players 24 and under, and they will not count against the budget cap.

2011 Salary Cap: $2.67 million per team.

dN

Reserve League: A 10-game regular season. Clubs will be split into three regions consisting of six teams each. Teams will play opponents in their region twice a season. Matches will take place the day after the first teams or during midweek. The best 8 teams in the regular season will advance to the playoffs, which will determine a champion. In addition to participating in the Reserve Division, they may also schedule matches against other teams, including NASL or USL-Pro clubs. Eligibility rules will be strict - These matches can only have players who are on the club’s roster or are on trial or in the club’s academy.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League: The 4 teams for next season are Colorado Rapids, FC Dallas, Los Angeles Galaxy & Seattle Sounders. They will most likely get extra salary cap space to help upgrade rosters for the tournament.

dN

Team #20: Unless something drastic happens, that team will be in New York City.

USA WORLD CUP 2022 BID

16 days until the rights to host the next 2 World Cups will be awarded.

dN

The announcement of the 2 host countries will be made live Thu Dec 2 at 9am Central on FIFA.com.

TEAM USA

Match & Score:

Nelson Mandela Challenge Cup

-Wed Nov 17

South Africa v USA - live at 1pm Central on ESPN2.

dN

The 60,000 seat Green Point Stadium is SOLD OUT for tomorrow's game.

dN

This will be game #12 in the country of South Africa for the USA in the past 3 years. Wow.

dN

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated looks at the new guys on the USA roster.

dN

Noah Davis of MLSsoccer.com previews the game.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to 18 year old centerback Gale Agbossoumonde about his big chance with the senior team.

dN

The Cape Town Times has words from SA head coach Pitso Mosimane about the USA team.

dN

IOL has an article on SA forward Davide Somma who lived in the USA for a few years as a teen, and later had a cup of coffee with the San Jose Earthquakes. He says he wants to "Destroy" the USA for not paying attention to him. He said it with a smile.

-Bob Bradley has outted the player though, but saying he knows all about him, but that he does not have a USA passport, so he can't play for the USA if they wanted him to.

dN

Stay tuned to Team USA via the official blog.

-Here are quotes from coach Bob Bradley after practice today.

dN

USA roster.

G:

Dominic Cervi - Celtic

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Estoril Praia

Nat Borchers - Real Salt Lake

Jonathan Bornstein - UANL Tigres

Clarence Goodson - Brondby

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa

Tim Ream - New York Red Bulls

Jonathan Spector - West Ham United

M:

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro

Brian Carroll - Columbus Crew

Mix Diskerud - Stabaek

Eddie Gaven - Columbus Crew

Logan Pause - Chicago Fire

Robbie Rogers - Columbus Crew

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Teal Bunbury - Kansas City Wizards

Robbie Findley - Real Salt Lake

dN

SA roster.

G:

Moeneeb Josephs - Orlando Pirates

Itumeleng Khune - Kaizer Chiefs

D:

Bevan Fransman - Hapoel Tel Aviv

Siboniso Gaxa - Lierse

Morgan Gould - Supersport

Tsepo Masilela - Maccabi Haifa

Anele Ngcongca - Genk

Keegan Ritchie - Moroka Swallows

Siyabonga Sangweni - Golden Arrows

Siyanda Xulu - Mamelodi Sundowns

M:

Daylon Claasen - Lierse

Kagisho Dikgacoi - Fulham

Andile Jali - Orlando Pirates

Thanduyise Khuboni - Golden Arrows

Reneilwe Letsholonyane - Kaizer Chiefs

Teko Modise - Orlando Pirates

Matthew Pattison - Mamelodi Sundowns

Steven Pienaar - Everton

Siphiwe Tshabalala - Kaizer Chiefs

F:

Kermit Erasmus - Supersport

Sthembiso Ngcobo - Kaizer Chiefs

Bernard Parker - Twente

Davide Somma - Leeds

STORY OF THE DAY

Duane Rollins of Canadian Soccer News reports that the Canadian Soccer Association has ordered a halt to any further funding of Division 2 (and below) Canadian soccer teams in any United States based leagues.

-Projects already in place can go forward.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"I plead guilty, sir."

-The woman who was driving the car that killed one passenger and severely injured USA star Charlie Davies plead guilty today on 2 felony charges. See details below in Americans In Europe section.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

John Molinaro of the CBC says that with there being 2 Canadian teams in the league now, and a third on the way, there is likely to be a change in the "international" and "national" roster status of players, because Canada simply does not have a deep enough pool of players to stock 3 top tier squads.

CHICAGO FIRE

The Fire did not sign fullback Krzysztof Krol who was with them this season on loan from Jagiellonia Bialystok in Poland.

CD CHIVAS USA

Scott French of ESPN LA says Eric Wynalda has talked to Chivas about their head coaching position, and he intends to bring Ramon Ramirez & Claudio Suarez with him to the job.

HOUSTON DYNAMO

Team COO Chris Canetti has been named the team's new President replacing the recently departed Oliver Luck.

LOS ANGELES GALAXY

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze has 4 things he thinks the Galaxy needs to change this offseason.

NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION

The Revs has signed their first academy player, 15 year old Diego Fagundez.

-The team gives us details.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

Both Nate Jaqua and Jeff Parke had surgery this week to fix leg area problems. (Hip and Foot respectively.)

dN

Don Ruis of The Olympian ponders off season roster moves for the Sounders.

dN

Joshua Mayers of the Times on the off season as well.

dN

Mayers also has a short Q & A with Kasey Keller.

dN

Steve Zakuani has decided to play for his native Congo DR rather than wait for USA citizenship which could take up to 3 years.

-This will most likely be the same call for Danny Mwanga too.

COLLEGE SOCCER

Here is the schedule for the NCAA Division I championship tournament:

FIRST ROUND

Matches & Scores

-Thu Nov 18

Coll. of Charleston v East Tennessee State, 7 pm ET

Providence v St. Peter's, 1 pm ET

Monmouth v Dartmouth, noon ET

Sacramento State v Santa Clara, 4 pm ET

-------------------------------------------

Creighton v New Mexico, 8 pm ET

Princeton v UMBC, 1 pm ET

Michigan State v Oakland, 1 pm ET

Georgetown v UNC Greensboro, 1 pm ET

-------------------------------------------

West Virginia v Xavier, 7 pm ET

Tulsa v Bradley, 1 pm ET

Brown v Boston College, 7 pm ET

UC Santa Barbara v Denver, 10 pm ET

-------------------------------------------

Duke v Coastal Carolina, 7 pm ET

UCF v USF, 5 PM ET

Virginia v Old Dominion, 7 pm ET

Pennsylvania v Bucknell, 7 pm ET

dN

SECOND ROUND

Matches & Scores:

#1 Louisville v winner Coll. of Charleston/East Tennessee St

#16 Ohio State v winner Providence/St. Peter's

#9 Notre Dame v winner Monmouth/Dartmouth

#8 UCLA v winner Sacramento State/Santa Clara

-------------------------------------------

#5 SMU v winner Creighton/New Mexico

#12 William & Mary v winner Princeton/UMBC

#13 Butler v winner Michigan State/Oakland

#4 North Carolina v winner Georgetown/UNC Greensboro

-------------------------------------------

#3 Akron v winner West Virginia/Xavier

#14 Indiana v winner Tulsa/Bradley

#11 Connecticut v winner Brown/Boston College

#6 California v winner UC Santa Barbara/Denver

-------------------------------------------

#7 South Carolina v winner Duke/Coastal Carolina

#10 Michigan v winner UCF/USF

#15 Penn State v winner Virginia/Old Dominion

#2 Maryland v winner Pennsylvania/Bucknell

USA U20 TEAM

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad tells us about highly touted outside midfielder Alexander Zahavi who is set to make his debut with the team in Atlanta over Thanksgiving weekend.

-He plays in Israel for Maccabi Haifa.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

The Washington Post reports that the woman driving the car in which Charlie Davies was seriously injured and another woman died has pleaded guilty today on charges of "involuntary manslaughter and maiming while driving intoxicated."

-The family of of the woman who died are considering filing a civil lawsuit against the driver and "others." Is there any chance they file against Davies?

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to Yevgeni Starikov of Tom Tomsk who has moved into the starting lineup late in the Russian season.

MEXICO

Laguilla (Playoffs)

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 17

UNAM Pumas v Cruz Azul Cementeros

Chiapas Jaguares v Santos Laguna

-Thu Nov 18

Pachuca Tuzos v Monterrey Rayados

San Luis Gladiadores v America Aguilas

2nd Leg

-Sat Nov 20

Cruz Azul Cementeros v UNAM Pumas

Santos Laguna v Chiapas Jaguares

-Sun Nov 21

Monterrey Rayados v Pachuca Tuzos

America Aguilas v San Luis Gladiadores

THE CARIBBEAN

The Stabroek News feeds us info on the little known national team of Guyana, known as the Golden Jaguars.

ENGLAND

Barney Ronay of the Guardian hands out a brow beating to Manchester City and their huge-money + boring-soccer ways.

FRANCE

Four Four Two lets readers pose questions to legendary Arsenal and France player Robert Pires.

EUROPE

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tells us all about new Russian champs Zenit of St Petersburg, and their Italian coach Luciano Spalletti (former head man at Roma for several successful seasons.)

UEFA EURO 2012

Two qualifiers this week.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Nov 17

Croatia v Malta

Finland v San Marino

COPA SUDAMERICANA

Two teams from Brazil face off on one side of the Semifinals, while a team from Ecuador takes on a team from Argentina on the other side.

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 17

Goias (Brazil) v Palmeiras (Brazil)

-Thu Nov 18

Liga de Quito (Ecuador) v Independiente (Argentina)

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 24

Palmeiras v Goias (-)

-Thu Nov 25

Independiente v Liga de Quito (-)

AFRICA CUP OF NATIONS

Two qualifiers this week.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Nov 17

Botswana v Tunisia

Togo v Chad

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Nov 16

Scotland 3-0 Faroe Islands

Saudi Arabia 0-0 Uganda

Jordan 0-0 Cyprus

Cape Verde Islands 2-1 Guinea-Bissau

-Wed Nov 17

Sweden v Germany

England v France

Portugal v Spain

Argentina v Brazil

Netherlands v Turkey

South Africa v USA

Romania v Italy

Switzerland v Ukraine

Ireland v Norway

Austria v Greece

Poland v Cote d'Ivoire

Hong Kong v Paraguay

Denmark v Czech Republic

Luxembourg v Algeria

Iraq v Kuwait

Ecuador v Venezuela

Panama v Honduras

N Ireland v Morocco

Russia v Belgium

Montenegro v Azerbaijan

Chile v Uruguay

Albania v Macedonia

Slovenia v Georgia

China v Latvia

Bulgaria v Serbia

Senegal v Gabon

Egypt v Australia

Iran v Nigeria

Hungary v Lithuania

Israel v Iceland

Slovakia v Bosnia-Herzegovina

Oman v Belarus

Jamaica v Costa Rica

Mozambique v Zimbabwe

Colombia v Peru

Guinea v Burkina Faso

Cape Verde Islands v Guinea-Bissau

Guyana v Guatemala

Malawi v Rwanda

Libya v Niger

Saudi Arabia v Ghana

Botswana v Tunisia

Qatar v Haiti

Mali v Congo DR

Estonia v Liechtenstein

-Thu Nov 18

UAE v India
