MLS PLAYOFFS

Wondo does it again!

And Bobby Convey was a star, scoring 2 goals and setting up a 3rd.

San Jose knocks out New York with a wild 5 minutes late in the second half where SJE scored, then NY and then SJE again. What a game.

Goodbye NY! Adios Angel. Au revoir Henry. Hasta la vista Marquez.

Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Thu Nov 4

New York Red Bulls 1-3 San Jose Earthquakes - SJE advances 3-2 on aggregate - NYRB goal by Juan Pablo Angel. SJE goals by Bobby Convey(2) & Chris Wondolowski.

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

Attendance: 22,839

-Sat Nov 6

Columbus Crew v Colorado Rapids (0-1) - 3pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Real Salt Lake v FC Dallas (1-2) - 9pm Central on FSC

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

-Sun Nov 7

Los Angeles Galaxy v Seattle Sounders FC (1-0) - 8pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

NEW YORK RED BULLS

du Nord analysis: Rafa Marquez was just short of awful. Add that to a rare poor performance from NY's backline and it easily adds up to loss. Goalkeeper Bouna Time has to take some blame too. The outside midfielders Dane Richards and Mehdi Balouchy did not really boost the team's offense, and as happens most of the time Balouchy's passing was below average. Joel Lindpere played his usual high quality game. The youngster Juan Agudelo was very crafty and a couple of times very dangerous, then he beautifully set up their only goal. And Juan Pablo Angel busted his tail all night, getting a reward with a late goal, but he was not good enough over all. The subs did little to nothing, and had almost no time to do it in.

Brian Lewis of the Post with a match report in the Red Bulls season ender.

Lewis says it was Juan Pablo Angel's last game with the Bulls.

Jay Greenburg of the Post wonders about the coaches decision making.

Dylan Butler of the Post on the kid Juan Agudelo, and a glimpse at his future. He had a really good game, at times magical.

George Vecsey of the Times with post-game analysis of New York's loss, and the end of the Angel era.

Andrew Keh of the times reviews the match.

Filip Bondy of the Daily News on a clearly frustrated Thierry Henry.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

du Nord analysis: What can you say. Outside of the team and their fans very few picked this winner. But they were great. Bobby Convey was simply fantastic, and the goalscoring machine Chris Wondolowski chose the right moment for his only quality play of the whole 2 game series. Captain Ramiro Corrales was terrific until he went out with a leg injury, while the other defenders and goalkeeper Jon Busch did just enough to get the win on the road. Ryan Johnson also played like a beast up top for them.

Michael Lewis writing for the Mercury News tells us of the wild finish in NY, with the Equakes knocking out the big favorites.

Robert Jonas of Center Line Soccer with a big recap of the SJE win.

Mark Young of Soccernet reviews the game.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

Leander Schaerlaeckens of ESPN on the on and off field success of 2 year Seattle.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES COMING UP THIS WEEKEND

Sunday is a big day, with no less than 3 major derbies.

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Nov 7

Lazio v Roma - the Rome derby, and with surprising Lazio in 1st place the game is that much bigger.

Liverpool v Chelsea - the champs and leaders want to go on the road and keep would-be's like Liverpool down.

Stuttgart v Werder Bremen - 2 perennial contenders who need to kickstart their seasons badly.

Paris St Germain v Marseille - the French Classic, with no away fans allowed in the stadium.

Real Madrid v Atletico Madrid - the Madrid derby.

USA U17 TEAM

They will play 3 international friendlies in Phoenix AZ.

Matches & Scores:

-wed Dec 1

USA v South Korea

-Fri Dec 3

USA v Brazil

-Sun Dec 5

USA v Turkey

THE CARIBBEAN

Caribbean Cup 2010 - Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Nov 4

St Vincent & Grendadines 1-3 Haiti

Trinidad & Tobago 2-1 Guyana

-Sat Nov 6

Trinidad & Tobago v Haiti

Guyana v St Vincent & Grendadines

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Recap of Matchday 4: Big bucks Manchester City went to Poland and got run over by Lech, Juventus could only manage a scoreless home tie with Red Bull Salzburg, Gent won big over Sporting, Zenit got another win on the road, Stuttgart got a big road win too, Porto & Besiktas tied, while PSV, Sevilla & Liverpool all won easily.

Matches & Scores

Group Standings

Matchday 5 games will be played on Wed Dec 1 & Thu Dec 2.

BRAZIL

Tim Vickery of Sports Illustrated looks at the influx of Argentine players into the Brazilian top flight.

ARGENTINA

Juan Roman Riquelme of Boca Juniors is finally set to return to the field 6 months after suffering an injury to his left knee.

-Boca Juniors are sitting in a very mediocre 11th place after 12 of 38 rounds of the Primera.

-On Tue Nov 16 Boca travel to their arch-rival River Plate for the Classico.
