Hey there. I am going to be out of town tomorrow so I thought I would post my weekly MLS rantings a day early. Let it roll:

1 Kansas City

2 DC United

3 FC Dallas

4 New England

5 TIE: Columbus & Chicago

7 Los Angeles

8 TIE: Colorado & San Jose

10 TIE: Metrostars & Chivas USA & Real Salt Lake

WHY:

1. KC had no match so they can't be punished and stay at the top, by default.

2. DC is held to a home draw by Chicago and falls out of first. They do have a brutal schedule right now though, with Champions Cup on Wed night, followed quickly by a match at Columbus on Friday night. Will they survive?

3. FCD - while they showed no offense, they did go on the road and keep a clean sheet. This is enough to keep you right where you are.

4. NE put a whoopin on Columbus in their home opener, following that 2nd half comeback on the road in week 1. The top 5 guys going at the goal look like a serious handful for anyone. If the back line holds they will be damn good. Luckily for them, their coach knows a little bit about how to play d.

5. TIE: Columbus drops like a bag of dirt after getting creamed by NE. Fraser looked a little old. Schulte looked a little gassed. Buddle didn't seem to be involved much. The tie goes to Chicago, who pulled out a great 1-1 road draw at RFK. That is a very good one for them. Words has it that Big Zach might not be in the nets due to injury suffered in the last game. There is a chance that I have them ranked way too high.

7. LA gets Baby Jesus on the field and teaches one of the new kids a harsh lesson. I still hate Steve Sampson.

8. TIE: Colo can't score at home, but doesn't get scored on either. Is this good? Not really. Ya gots ta win at home dudes! I would hate to be a fan of the Rapids. And this week both their top strikers are out hurt - Jeff Cunningham & Jean Phillipe Peguero. Tie goes to San Jose who have blown a lead at home two weeks in a row. They should have 6 points, but they have 2. Their defense and goalkeeper do not look good. Onstad is suddenly old. Dayak and Weibel were never that good to start with. Cochrane is lost, and Wade Barrett wishes he had stayed in Scandinavia. Suspended Eddie Robinson is not the answer. So I guess they need Danny Califf healthy now.

10. TIE: Mets were idle so they stay the same. Chivas jumps up to tie after a good offensive showing in SJ, but they still have no defense at all. RSL drops quickly after a poor showing in LA. They must win at home against Colo this weekend to save some early face. (And I predict they will NOT do it this weekend, and then they will be in last place, unless Metro beats em too it.)

The Match-Ups:

Fri Apr 15

Columbus v DC United at 7pm central on ESPN2

Sat Apr 16

Real Salt Lake vs Colorado at 2pm central on ESPN2

MetroStars v Kansas City not broadcast nationally

Chicago v San Jose at 7:30pm central on Fox Soccer Channel

Chivas v Dallas at 9pm central on HDNet
