It's Day 111 of 2016.

A look at all the young Americans flooding into European clubs and succeeding. Including the story of Brooks Lennon at Liverpool. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

This is as strong a USA U20 list as there has ever been:

Mukwelle Akale - Villareal

Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham

Brooks Lennon - Liverpool

Matthew Olosunde - Manchester United

Erik Palmer-Brown - Porto

Joshua Perez - Fiorentina

Christian Pulisic - Dortmund

Luca de la Torre - Fulham

Gedion Zelalem - Arsenal

dN

Jason Kreis speaks! We have not heard a peep from the former RSL and NYC head coach since he was fired after 1 season in New York. The subject of the article is a documentary film covering the first year in existence of NYC FC. Further comments by GM Claudio Reyna. By Glenn Crooks of CBS New York.

dN

Awesome! I forgot to post this on Monday - another classic Didier Drogba goal for Montreal! What an amazing player. [VIDEO]

dN

It was not a pleasant weekend for fans of the 3 pro teams in New York - Red Bulls, City and Cosmos all lost. Lets read some thoughts on those games by Dave Martinez of Empire of Soccer.

dN

Is TFC finally getting it right? Only time will tell, but they are bullish. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

Many people see MLS refereeing as a major issue in need of immediate answers. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPFC.

dN

Mortal: du Nord Music Mix Vol 80 (download + extract)

dN

Someone asked me to list my 10 favorite record stores of all time: (alphabetically)

Honest Jons Records/Reggae Revive (London)

Lou's Records (Encinitas)

Northern Lights (Minneapolis)*

Other Music (New York)

Pier Platters (Hoboken)*

Tower Records - Piccadilly (London)*

Used Kids Records (Columbus)

Vintage Vinyl (St Louis)

Vinyl Solution (Grand Rapids)*

Waterloo Records (Austin)

*Sadly many of these great stores are gone.

dN

One fan tells his story of growing to hate what his favorite team has become (and details the pitfalls,) then realizes that he can follow a club at any level he choses. From The Set Pieces.

dN

Interesting: On the NCAA job board there is a new posting for "Director Of Boys Soccer" at Shattuck-St Marys School, which is a US Development Academy program located in Fairbault MN. The posting says Shattuck is affiliated with the "MLS Minnesota United academy system."

This is the first I have heard of a Minnesota United academy system.

dN

The NPSL team from Fort Worth TX, Vaqueros, is going to announce that they are building a 5000 seat stadium. The more this kind of story happens the more this whole American soccer world grows. Its as exciting to learn of this as it is to hear that Orlando and DC are building their own stadiums too.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League Final:

1st Leg

-Wed Apr 20

UANL Tigres v Club America - 8:30pm CT on Univision Deportes + UniMas

2nd Leg

-Wed Apr 27

Club America v UANL Tigres - 8:30pm CT on Univision Deportes + UniMas

dN

Philosophy:

love that one !! pic.twitter.com/i42druxVXu

— Jürgen Klinsmann (@J_Klinsmann) April 20, 2016

The Bird Is The Word
