It's Day 155 of 2016.

The Reckoning begins now! Copa America Centenario starts tonight in Santa Clara CA with USA v Colombia.

Here is the weekend match schedule:

-Fri Jun 3

USA v Colombia

-Sat Jun 4

Costa Rica v Paraguay

Haiti v Peru

Brazil v Ecuador

-Sun Jun 5

Jamaica v Venezuela

Mexico v Uruguay

-Mon Jun 5

Panama v Bolivia

Argentina v Chile

dN

Argentina have to be the CAC favorites, and with good reason. By Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian.

Wilson sees Uruguay and Mexico as the next two best threats to win it.

dN

James Rodriguez of Colombia has a chance to re-light his World Cup star power that has faded at the club level over the past 2 years. By Andrew Key of the New York Times.

dN

USMNT's Copa America Centenario Group Stage games:

-Fri Jun 3

USA v Colombia - Santa Clara - 8:30pm CT on FS1

-Tue Jun 7

USA v Costa Rica - Chicago - 7pm CT on FS1

-Sat Jun 11

USA v Paraguay - Philadelphia - 6pm CT on FS1

dN

I will be at the USA game in Chicago next Tuesday. I hope to see you there. Come say "Hi" if you see me.

dN

USA coach Jurgen Klinsmann is really up for this tournament and sees success in the cards for his team. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

dN

Q + A session with coach Klinsmann on the eve of the tournament. And as always he puts the blame for any any USA short comings on a lot of other people - but not himself. By Matthew Futterman of the Wall Street Journal.

dN

US Soccer president Sunil Gulati talks about Copa America from a federation/business point of view and the potential of a future Men's World Cup on US soil. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

USA Copa America roster:

G: Guzan, Horvath, Howard

D: Besler, Birnbaum, Brooks, Cameron, Castillo, Johnson, Orozco, Yedlin

M: Beckerman, Bedoya, Bradley, Jones, Kitchen, Nagbe, Pulisic, Zusi

F: Dempsey, Wondolowski, Wood, Zardes

Group D

0 Colombia

0 Costa Rica

0 Paraguay

0 USA

If the USA can get out of their group then the most likely scenario to win the tournament would be to beat Brazil in the Quarterfinal, Mexico in the Semifinal, and Argentina in the Final.

dN

Minnesota United travels to Oklahoma City for the first time ever on Saturday night.

It was good to see random internet notes pertaining to Minnesota United showing Ben Speas and Brent Kallman both back from injury and making the trip to OKC. We had already seen another injured player Danny Cruz on the field in St Louis on Wednesday so we knew he is healthy too. That leaves just the long term injury of Greg Jordan and shorter term injury of Jeb! Brovsky to deal with.

dN

BTW, yesterday I asked Minn United for a GIF of Jack Blake's first ever goal, scored in St L on Wed, and they reciprocated:

Jack The Ripper...

▶️ @jackjblake #MNUFC #USOC2016 pic.twitter.com/zXEzl3BrH0

— Minnesota United FC (@MNUnitedFC) June 3, 2016

(thank you thank you thank you)

dN

NY Cosmos can seal the Spring Championship on Saturday with a win at Fort Lauderdale. So for the first time in my life I say, "Come on Fort Lauderdale!!!"

dN

NASL Week 10 - coming up:

-Sat Jun 4

Fort Lauderdale v New York

Carolina v Jacksonville

Tampa Bay v Ottawa

Miami v Indy

OKC v Minnesota

-Bye: Edmonton

dN

MLS Week 14:

-Thu Jun 2

New York City 2-3 Salt Lake

Dallas 1-1 Houston

LA 0-0 Kansas City

-The league is now off until Jun 18.

My MLS Notes:

Salt Lake, (Go get em!), got the only win last night, but no big surprise since NYC has only 1 home win in 9 games.

LA + SKC are two teams with big questions in the goalkeeping category but neither made a change after gaffable prior games and both got a shutout. I am sure each team is happy with that.

LA was incredibly inept offensively at home, with not 1 single shot on goal. Pathetic might be a better word than inept actually. Where as KC had 15 shots on goal and couldn't score, now that is inept. (In truth the vast majority of the SKC shot were from the 15-25 yard range.)

Ricardo Clark of Houston is the best player in the league at long range shooting, and he scored another beautiful goal!

People are telling me that continuous heavy rains in the Dallas area has caused the condition of the FCD field to suffer badly. Apparently its been getting worse during the past week or two of excess moisture. Damn. Flooding is one of those disasters that is hard to overcome. Also found out, after much cajoling, that a concert took place at the stadium last weekend. That plays a bigger role then rain ever will.

Bradley Wright-Phillips of New York Red Bulls named MLS Player Of The Month for May. Deserved.

The Bird Is The Word
