STARTERS

That was the first loss for the USA, when they lead at half time, in 95 games. Disappointing. The USA is now 0-7-3 all time against Italy.

dN

Bag me on Twitter: dunord

TEAM USA - CONFEDERATIONS CUP

USA Group Stage Matches:

-Mon Jun 15

USA 1-3 Italy - USA goal by Landon Donovan(PK). Ita goals by Giuseppe Rossi(2) & Daniele De Rossi.

Venue: Loftus Versfeld Stadium - Pretoria

-Press from South Africa on the game:

Match report from IOL South Africa.

Post-game analysis from IOL. Good Stuff.

Match report from BuaNews.

Stadium atmosphere report from BuaNews. Great stuff.

Match report from Kick Off.

Post game comments by coaches and players from Kick Off.

Match report from the Johannesburg Times.

Match report from News24.

-Thu Jun 18

USA v Brazil - 8:30am Central on ESPN2

Venue: Loftus Versfeld Stadium - Pretoria

-FIFA.com with a match preview.

dN

du Nord 3 (4) Star of the Game

3. Landon Donovan/Oguchi Onyewu - I know what you are thinking, but I am 'Mericun so I have to put my team on this list. And these two guys were pretty good. Yes they both had errors, Gooch's even lead to a goal, but they worked so hard, and added a lot to the game. Their teammates need to follow the example these two set. Donovan is not the perfect marvel we all want him to be, OK? He dribbles into trouble and is only good half the time on free kicks, but no one else on the team can pass like him, and make defenses crazy like he can, NO ONE. And Onyewu was masterful at stuffing Gilardino, and later Toni. What a monster back there. He won every single head ball in the area, and his footwork & poise have become very strong. I loved it. And I don't want to hear this crap about Donovan only scoring from the PK spot lately. Do they count the same? Yes? Ok then, end of story.

2. Andre Pirlo - His touch is so amazing, and his fight to keep a ball is inspirational. Too bad I dislike this guy so much, because he would be easy to cheer for. Fantastic game from him.

1. Giuseppe Rossi - He didn't come in until the 57th minute but only needed about 1 minute to blister the USA defense for a huge goal that crumbled the wall, and then he finished off the Americans late. The traitor slit our throats. Great game for him, sad day for us.

dN

FIFA named Daniele de Rossi the Man of the Match.

dN

USMNT Official Blog

dN

My Thoughts:

-The effort by the USA was not as good as it should have been, and not as bad as it could have been.

-When both Altidore and Bradley missed those attempts on goal I had a bad feeling. You only get those so often and their shots were weeeeeeeak. They really needed to get one of those.

-The Red Card given to Ricardo Clark was a bad call, but not a terrible one. By this I mean that I can see how it happened in a flash instant like that and the referee called it as he saw it. But still, that was a harsh decision becuz the ref had called nothing on Clark leading up to that a Yellow with a lecture would have been perfect. Instead he changed the game in a very big way.

-IN addition to questioning that call, I think there should have been another PK given to the USA late in the game when Landon Donovan was smothered in the penalty area by Legro, yet the referee chose to wave play on that time. To me that call was obvious, even more so in light of the flimsy Red Card he had handed out.

-I have been told about but not read the USA whining on the referee, (wasn't I just whining in the previous 2 sentences though?) and if you read regularly you know how I feel about that stuff. "Just shut up and play"! If you play hard you usually get your just rewards.

-Italy was plain old better, even when it was 11 on 11, and they deserved to win.

-Giuseppe Rossi was phenomenal. What else can I say. I still hate him though.

-If the USA had gotten a tie or win it would have been a fantastically lucky game for them.

dN

For some reason it takes 2 posts by Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated to give his views of the game. One - and - two.

CONFEDERATIONS CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2009

Fact to make all opponents shiver: Brazil has played 8 games all time on African soil and won them all. Beware.

dN

I love how Egypt play the game. Even more than Brazil. I think its that emotional edge they bring with them. I know it probably costs them at times when their composure gets away from them, but its very entertaining. They have been so great in the last 2 African Nations Cups, that even though they have been struggling in qualifying I was hoping to see this team show up. I see where Egypt are claiming that the 4th official saw a replay on a TV monitor of the late handball on the goal line and got the attention of the head referee who made the PK call that won in it for Brazil. While using a monitor is not allowed by FIFA I say to hell with the rule book, if its a hand ball on the line I don't care if space aliens made the call it was the right call, and even more proof that video assistance is needed.

dN

This article from the Johannesburg Mail & Guardian is running a couple days late, but its a cool look around the country from several reporters giving their general impressions as the big event starts.

dN

Standings:

Group A

3 Spain

1 Iraq

1 South Africa

0 New Zealand

Group B

3 Italy (+2)

3 Brazil (+1)

0 Egypt (-1)

0 USA (-2)

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Jun 14

South Africa 0-0 Iraq

New Zealand 0-5 Spain - Spa goals by Fernando Torres(3), Cesc Fabregas & David Villa.

-Mon Jun 15

Brazil 4-3 Egypt - Braz goals by Kaka(2 - one via PK), Luis Fabiano & Juan. Egy goals by Mohamed Zidan & Mohamed Shawky.

USA 1-3 Italy - USA goal by Landon Donovan(PK). Ita goals by Giuseppe Rossi(2) & Daniele De Rossi.

-Wed Jun 17

Spain v Iraq - 8:55am Central on ESPN2

South Africa v New Zealand - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

-Thu Jun 18

USA v Brazil - 8:30am Central on ESPN2

Egypt v Italy - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

-Sat Jun 20

Iraq v New Zealand - delayed to Midnight Central Sunday morning on ESPN2

Spain v South Africa - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

-Sun Jun 21

Italy v Brazil - 1:00pm Central on ESPN

Egypt v USA - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

MLS

MLS Week 14 Matches:

-Wed Jun 17

Seattle Sounders FC v DC United - 9:30pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

-Sat Jun 20

San Jose Earthquakes v Los Angeles Galaxy - 3:30pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

New York Red Bulls v Seattle Sounders FC - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

FC Dallas v Columbus Crew - 7:30pm Central on FSC & FSE

Houston Dynamo v Real Salt Lake - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Colorado Rapids v DC United - 8:30pm Central on Direct Kick

dN

4 teams have the weekend off: Toronto, Chivas USA, Chicago Fire & Kansas City Wizards. Huh? Why did these teams play on an international weekend, and not play now. Something is really wrong here.

dN

Colorado has acquired midfielder/forward Pat Noonan from Columbus.

-Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch on the Crew ditching Noonan.

dN

Nigel Reed of the CBC asks: Does TFC need a new captain? Yes Nigel they do, and they have needed the change since day one. Guys like Jim Brennan and Carl Robinson are nice hard working fellas, but they will not lead the team to the promised land. They simply aren't good enough.

dN

Toronto has released forward Johann Smith, a one time promising American speedster.

dN

Don Ruiz of the Tacoma News Trib reports that 3 of Seattle’s important players will be off the injury list for Wednesday nights big game against DC - Jhon Kennedy Hurtado, Nate Jaqua & Osvaldo Alonso.

dN

The Seattle Post Intelligencer reports that the Sounders are on track to break the average attendance record held by LA.

dN

Jose Romero of the Seattle Times with an article on Sounder forward Fredy Montero who is a favorite of coach Sigi Schmid. That is good enough endorsement for me. Not everyone else agrees however.

dN

The Sports Network with an article on the quickly improving season for Houston Dynamo midfielder Stuart Holden.

dN

The Harrisonburg Daily News with an article on Red Bulls youngster Nick Zimmerman who is getting his chance to show what he can do in real games.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post reports that former Colorado keeper Bouna Coundoul is training with New York, and so are other players looking for jobs.

dN

Kyle McCarthy of the Boston Herald reports "Former FC Porto, Benfica and Real Sociedad target man Edgaras Jankauskas, 34, is expected to join the team on trial this week, according to vice president of player personnel Michael Burns."

US OPEN CUP

2nd Round Matches:

-Tue Jun 16

Minnesota Thunder v Chicago Fire PDL

Venue: National Sports Center, Blaine MN

Carolina RailHawks v Wilmington Hammerheads

Venue: WakeMed Soccer Park, Cary NC

Rochester Rhinos v Cleveland City Stars

Venue: Marina Auto Stadium, Rochester NY

Harrisburg City Islanders v Western Mass Pioneers

Venue: Skyline Sports Complex, Harrisburg PA

Miami FC Blues v Charleston Battery

Venue: Tropical Park, Miami FL

Austin Aztex v El Paso Patriots

Venue: Nelson Field, Austin TX

Sonoma County Sol v Portland Timbers

Venue: Santa Rosa High School, Santa Rosa CA

Ocean City Barons v Real Maryland Monarchs

Venue: Carey Stadium - Ocean City NJ

USL FIRST DIVISION

After my Minnesota Thunder wiped the field with Carolina on Sunday afternoon, one of their players, Daniel Paladini, came over near our section and told us that we were "the worst fans in the league." Hahahahahaha. This coming from a guy who was booked for diving, and only got away with a vicious forearm to the back of MN defender Jonathan Greenfield who had stuffed him like a turkey. Three cheers to you Mr Paladini, you are our Idiot of the Week!

dN

USL First Division Team of the Week

G:

Nic Platter - Minnesota - Seven saves in 2-0 win over Carolina

D:

David Hayes - Portland - Led team in two road draws

Wes Knight - Vancouver - Two assists in 3-2 win over Miami

Cristian Arrieta - Puerto Rico - Two goals in 4-1 win over Austin

Matt Bobo - Charleston - Led team in 1-1 draw versus Portland

M:

Pato Aguilera - Cleveland - Two assists in 3-0 win over Rochester

Jonathan Steele - Puerto Rico - Goal in 4-1 win over Austin

Godfrey Tenoff - Cleveland - Goal in 3-0 win over Rochester

F:

Diego Serna - Miami - Goal in 2-0 win over Austin

Brian Cvilikas - Minnesota - Two goals in 2-0 win over Carolina

Charles Gbeke - Vancouver - Two goals and on-field fight with teammate in 3-2 win over Miami

dN

USL First Division Player of the Week

Brian Cvilikas - Minnesota - YES!!!

SUPERLIGA 2009

The 3rd edition of the highly entertaining, yet somehow useless summer tournament between 4 MLS & 4 FMF sides begins this weekend - Sat Jun 20. All games on TeleFutura. Are you ready? Here are the 2 groups:

Group A

Chicago Fire

Chivas USA

San Luis

UANL Tigres

Group B

New England Revolution

Kansas City Wizards

Santos Laguna

Atlas

dN

Official Site

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Steve Nash has announced another edition of The Showdown in Chinatown. After the huge success last year, you knew they just had to do it again! Nash and his NBA buddies team up with some of the worlds great footballers for charity, playing a small sided game on a tiny little pitch in the middle of New York City. Last years event was nearly a free for all for the fans, meaning this year could be mass chaos! Next Wednesday June 24th is the day. Here are some of the superstars expected to join Nash: Claudio Reyna, Thierry Henry, Tony Parker, Javier Zanetti, Raja Bell, Adrian Mutu, Chris Bosh, Ivan Cordoba, Grant Hill, Giovanni van Brockhurst, Ryan Babel, Salomon Kalou, Mathieu Flamini and Jason Kidd. Stay tuned for more info.

dN

Nick Green of the LA Daily News digs into the thick schedule of viewing that us soccer fans have to wade through over the summer. Green focuses on LA, but its in effect for all of us.

EUROPE

Celtic of Glasgow has hired Tony Mowbray as their new coach. Last season he did a bang up job guiding his team West Bromich Albion to a last place finish in the English Premiership.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Quarterfinal 2nd Leg Matches (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Wed Jun 17

Nacional v Palmeiras (1-1)

Sao Paulo v Cruzeiro (1-2)

Gremio v Caracas (1-1)

-Thu Jun 18

Estudiantes v Defensor (1-0)

dN

Semifinals

-Wed Jun 24 & Wed Jul 1

Final

-Wed Jul 8 & Wed Jul 15

ENDERS

Here is a picture of that Jet Blue plane painted in the Real Salt Lake colors. Pretty cool.
