STARTERS

Huge congrats to Sky Blue FC on winning the first ever WPS championship!

dN

Who was that corpse calling the game for Colorado yesterday??? He barely registered a wavelength when their team scored 2 goals to go ahead on the road in Chicago. What the hell was that? And then they gave up three to the home team, including the game loser in stoppage time and he was only slightly more animated. Someone get this guy a cattle prod!

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The Group Stage is underway! Here is the official web site of the tournament for all the up to date standings and game schedules.

dN

All 3 MLS teams play on Wednesday night this week:

dN

Matchday 2

Some Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 26

DC United v Toluca - 7pm Central on FSC & Telefutura

Cruz Azul v Columbus Crew - 9pm Central on FSC & Telefutura

Arabe Unido v Houston Dynamo - broadcast delayed to Thursday at 7pm Central on FSC

MLS

Official Web Site

dN

Well, I'll be Jimmy Jingled! Osorio goes out the door in New York, and the Ankle Biting Midget Of Death himself Richie Williams takes over leading the team to their first win in what seems like since last seasons semifinals. Holy Smokes! Who knew it would be this easy?

dN

Beyond that shocker there were two other interesting outcomes from the weekend:

-Colorado was up 0-2 at Chicago in the second half and managed to choke away all three points with Dasan Robinson scoring in stoppage time for a Fire win.

-Kheli Dube nabbed 3 goals for New England, no doubt he will be named the leagues Player of the Week, and they beat Salt Lake 3-1, whose only score came from a Darius Barnes own goal.

dN

New signings Jesus Padilla and Maicon Santos debuted for Chivas USA, who saw Sacha Kljestan play great for the first time all season long, and they beat Toronto going away.

dN

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated compares David Beckham to Dennis Rodman. Yes!

dN

Luis Bueno at Sports Illustrated looks at the arrival of Jesus Padilla at Chivas USA.

dN

I have seen more than one publication says that Los Angeles coach Bruce Arena is the easy winner of the Coach of the Year Award. But I beg to differ. How can you discount what Sigi Schmid has done with newcomers Seattle. Then you have Robert Warzycha not missing a beat in Columbus, and Dominic Kinnear keeping Houston at the top of pile even after losing their best player Dwayne DeRosario to Toronto, and most of their back line to injury. So there's 3 other top choices.

USL SECOND DIVISION

The Playoffs

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 22

Richmond Kickers 1-0 Harrisburg City Islanders

Wilmington Hammerheads 0-1 Charlotte Eagles

-Sat Aug 29

Richmond Kickers v Charlotte Eagles - 10pm Central on FSC

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Sport Hull on Jozy Altidore's frustration while he was waiting for his work permit, and then the dramatic start to his career in England at Hull City.

Martin Rogers of Yahoo says to succeed in England Jozy Altidore is going to have to learn how to bring his best every single week.

The Guardian on Jozy's excellent debut for Hull.

The Daily Mail says Jozy did it in borrowed shoes.

dN

Jonathan Spector went the full 90 for West Ham at left fullback. This could be a great thing if that position works out for him. The USA needs a left back desperately.

dN

Oguchi Onyewu started the season on the bench at AC Milan (they won 1-2 at Siena) behind centerbacks Alessandro Nesta & Thiaquinho, who the team bought from Vasco da Gama in the summer. In all the season previews I read from Itayl Onyewu was barely mentioned while a healthy Nesta & Thia got lots of talk. Even Kakha Kaladze was mentioned more than Gooch, putting our boy essentially 4th on the depth chart at the centerback spot. Not good. But honestly, who didn't see this coming? Let's hope he is up for the task and wins a starting job soon.

dN

Michael Parkhurst was booked again this weekend for Nordsjaelland, which probably gives him more cards in his short stint in Denmark, then his entire career in MLS, in which I believe he got 1 Yellow total.

dN

Greg Seltzer of No Short Corners gives us his insider info on potential moves for the likes of Landon Donovan etc.

dN

Soccer 365 suggests that FC Dallas is chasing after Heath Pearce. It's better than nothing.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

DENMARK - Superliga

Dan Califf - Midtjylland - played the full game but lost 1-4 at home to Copenhagen.

Benny Feilhaber - Aarhus - started and went 71 minutes in a 2-2 home draw against Silkeborg.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - played the entire match, getting a Yellow Card, and losing 1-0 at Sonderjyske.

Jeremiah White - Aarhus - started and went 60 minutes in a 2-2 home draw against Silkeborg.

ENGLAND - Premiership

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - came on as a sub in the 60th minute and immediately set up the games only goal as they won 1-0 over Bolton Wanderers at home.

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - went the full match but lost 0-2 at home to Chelsea.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance but lost 1-0 at Burnley.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played the entire match but lost 1-2 at home to Tottenham Hotspur.

ENGLAND - Championship

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the distance in a 2-2 home draw against Blackpool.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - came on as a sub in the 84th minute as they won 3-0 at home against Tranmere Rovers.

Jemal Johnson - Milton Keynes - started and went 81 minutes in a 2-1 home win over Colchester United.

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - played the entire game and scored his teams first goal, but they lost 5-2 at Norwich City.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - went the distance as usual but they could only draw 1-1 at home against Olympique Marseille.

Charlie Davies - Sochaux - started and played 71 minutes but they lost 2-0 at Montpellier.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - started but only lasted the first half, claiming a Yellow Card too, as they lost 3-0 at Werder Bremen.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - played the whole game as they went to Nurnberg and won 0-2.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

David Yelldell - Koblenz - went the full 90 but lost 1-0 at Furtuna Dusseldorf.

IRELAND - Premier Division

Ryan Guy - St Patrick's Athletic - played all 90 but lost 1-0 at Derry City.

NETHERLANDS - Erste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played all 90 at they won 1-4 on the road at Stormvogels

NORWAY - Tippeligaen

Hunter Freeman - Start - played the full match, got a Yellow Card, and lost 4-1 at Lyn Oslo.

Clarence Goodson - Start - played the entire game but lost 4-1 at Lyn Oslo.

Tyrel Lacey - Lyn Oslo - went the distance in goal on his debut and beat Start 4-1.

Troy Perkins - Valerenga - played all 90 but lost 3-2 at Stabaek.

NORWAY - Adeccoligaen

Joe Lapira - Nybergsund - scored a goal as they won 2-0 at home over Bryne

Jay Needham - Alta - played all 90 and they won 5-3 at home over Hamarkamaratene.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - came on as a sub in the 75th minute but lost 2-1 at Elfsborg.

SWEDEN - Superettan

Ryan Miller - Ljungskile - went the full 90 but lost 0-2 at home to Syrianska Sodertalje.

Etchu Tabe - Ljungskile - went the full 90 but lost 0-2 at home to Syrianska Sodertalje.

dN

Coming Up:

ENGLAND - Premiership

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Mon Aug 24 at Liverpool

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - Mon Aug 24 at Liverpool

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - Mon Aug 24 v Karlsruhe

NETHERLANDS - Erste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - Mon Aug 24 at Excelsior

NORWAY - Tippeligaen

Matthew Allen - Sandefjord - Mon Aug 24 at Brann Bergen

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Ryan Raybould - Gelfe - Mon Aug 24 v Hammarby

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Game Action: (only those who played are listed)

PRIMERA DIVISION - games this weekend

Edgar Castillo - UANL - played the full 90 but they lost their innercity derby 1-2 at home against Monterrey.

Michael Orozco - San Luis - went the full 90 of a 1-1 road draw at Indios Juarez.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - came on as a sub in the 81st minute of a 1-1 home draw with San Luis.

CONCACAF

The Guardian on Honduran Wilson Palacios and his great performances for Tottenham in England so far this new season.

MEXICO

Reigning champions UNAM Pumas lost again making their new season start a perfect 5 losses in 5 games. Ugly.

ENGLAND

Patrick Barclay of the Times goes off on divers. I hate divers. And even more than using video for goals etc they should be using retroactive video replay to penalize divers. This will stop the scourage immediately.

dN

Manchester City added to their summer booty by signing fullback Sylvinho of Barcelona and Brazil.

SCOTLAND

The Observer looks into the financial and talent drop in Scottish football.

EUROPE

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Adrian Mutu, Fiorentina and the opening weekend in Serie A.

-By the way, in case any of you care, Inter were absolutely horrible in a 1-1 home draw with newly promoted Bari.

dN

Football Italia with a review of Week 1 in Serie A.

dN

The worst performer for Inter yesterday was coach Jose Mourinho. He picked a lousy starting 11 and all three subs were for players who should have never been on the field in the first place. This guy is a self proclaimed genius! First he has to take out Suli Muntari after just 28 because the player is wiped out physically while fasting for Ramadan. He should not have played at all! They he subs out Patrick Vieira at half time because he is old and worn out, and contributes nothing anyway. And in his place he puts in the equally worthless Ricardo Quaresma. Then Mourinho also stars the old worthless cheap shot Marco Materazzi won contributes a brutal early tackle that somehow avoids a card, then and even worse tackle which should have been Red and was only Yellow, and is then pulled in the 61st for Ivan Cordoba. This is a cruel joke right??

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune looks at the newer Brazilian influence on Italy.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian looks at Mainz who knocked off the deeply troubled Bayern Munich (way too many chiefs if you ask me), and the weekend in Germany's Bundesliga.

-Juergen Klinsmann's Bayern looks fantastic compared to these fools. They should out Uli Hoeness and Franz Beckenbauer on the first train out of town and let coach Luis Van Gaal run his own damn team.

dN

Global Post on Ukraine's struggle to co-host Euro 2012.

dN

Deutsche Welle with an article on 2.Bundesliga club Union Berlin who Der Speigel reports has ties to the old East German Stasi (the secret police).

dN

Barcelona beat Athletic Bilboa 3-0 to win the Spanish Super Cup 5-1 on aggregate. The new season starts this coming weekend.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Tim Vickery of the BBC lives in Brazil, but visited England and compares the footballing experience for fans in the two countries.

dN

FIFA.com has a Q & A session with former Brazil coach Big Phil - Luiz Felipe Scolari.
