We made a list before the season started of 30 MLS players who we felt had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

30 breakout players For 2013: Week 4 Review

Juan Agudelo - scored one goal, set up another and was named MLS Player of the Week.

Alex - Started and went 87 minutes, being dangerous at times, but the whole team is really struggling.

Eric Avila - Played the whole game and shows more influence every week.

Steve Beitashour - Still out injured.

Jerry Bengston - With national team.

Claudio Bieler - Played the entire match, and got chances, but for the 2nd week in a row he could not convert.

Alex Caskey - Came on for the final 9 minutes abut lost on the road 1-0.

Michael Farfan - Bye week. Note from reader Michael Cecire: "looked really good in friendly vs Pumas UNAM and scored a goal!"

Gabriel Farfan - Bye week.

Diego Fagundez - Surprisingly left on the bench in a game that his team desparately needed offense.

Perry Kitchen - Went the full 90 in another solid week but again failed to help push the team forward.

Mikey Lopez - On the bench again, but not used for a team that could use his attacking skills.

Darren Mattocks - Went the full 90, scoring his team's only goal, but lost 2-1 away from home.

Kenny Miller - With national team.

Mario Martinez - With national team.

Jack McInerney - Bye week.

Kekuta Mennah - Came on for the last 10 minutes but could not help the team get the tie they wanted.

Justin Meram - Was not on the gameday 18 man roster.

Amobi Okugo - Bye week.

Martin Rivero - Still out injured.

Oriol Uri Rosell - Went the full 90, but struggling to help the team create good chances.

Kelyn Rowe - Played the entire game but did not contribute to the attack like he needs to.

Chris Schuler - Moved to fullback from centerback, went the distance, but they lost 2-0.

Luis Silva - Still out injured.

AJ Soares - Played the whole game and helped keep a clean sheet against a team that should be scoring a lot of goals.

Bakary Soumare - Out of the teams future plans, and has requested to be moved to another team.

Zarek Valentin - Has been loaned to Norwegian team Bodo/Glimt for the rest of 2013.

Diego Valeri - Bye week.

Jose Villareal - Started and played 67 minutes, missing several chances for a goal.

Sal Zizzo - Bye week.
