My Twitter handle: dunord

Go ahead and befriend me. Then you'll get regular updates from dN.

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

MLS Week 5 Matches & Scores:

-Fri Apr 17

DC 1-1 New England - DC goal by Ben Olsen. NE goal by Shalrie Joseph.

Venue: RFK Stadium, Washington DC

Attendance: 14441

-Sat Apr 18

New York 2-0 Salt Lake - NY goals by Macoumba Kandji & Juan Pablo Angel.

Venue: Giants Stadium, East Rutherford NJ

Attendance: 8508

Chicago 2-2 Kansas City - CF goals both by Brian McBride. KCW goals both by Josh Wolff.

Venue: Toyota Park, Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 10782

San Jose 1-1 Los Angeles - SJE goal by Pablo Campos. LAG goal by Bryan Jordan.

Venue: Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum, Oakland CA

Attendance: 15862

Chivas 2-0 Seattle - CUSA goals by James Riley(OG) & Chukwudi Chijindu.

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

Attendance: 15463

-Sun Apr 19

Houston 1-0 Colorado - HD goal by Brian Ching.

Venue: Robertson Stadium, Houston TX

Attendance: 12708

Dallas 3-2 Toronto - FCD goals by Drew Moor & Kenny Cooper(2 - one via PK). TFC goals by Adrian Serioux & Chad Barrett.

Venue: Pizza Hut Park, Frisco TX

Attendance: Not Made Available - (too big to measure??)

The Columbus Crew were the odd team out and had the week off.

Red Cards:

Jeremy Hall - New York Red Bulls - Ejection, Serious Foul Play

-I thought this was a pretty bad call. Definitely Yellow, but Red? I don't know about that.

My Notes from this weeks games:

-Despite the desperate nature of the LA Galaxy it was nice to see Landon Donovan not giving up during their 1-1 tie at San Jose.

-The look on Bruce Arena's face when LA gave up yet another early goal was priceless. But I don't know what he expects when you have a defense with a guy that slow in the middle of two rookies. (Tony Sanneh)

-It was nice to see that Chad Barrett got his vasectomy reversed. Huh? My friend Pat nicknamed Barrett "The Vasectomy" after Week 1 in which Barrett was so inept in front of goal that it became comical. So why "The Vasectomy"? Because Chad Barrett is where balls go to die.

-The on-field spat between veteran Ben Olsen and youngster Wells Thompson was fun to watch on Friday night. At one point Thompson and Olsen went for a ball in the corner and Thompson gave Captain Caveman a good strong two handed shove to the back as they went out of play. Of course Olsen wheeled on Wells, grabbing his shirt and screaming profanities. Thompson just grinned evilly. Both got booked. But revenge being the amazingly sweet dish best served cold that it is found Olsen on the end of a Jaime Moreno free kick in the games dying seconds which Benny wrestled into the old onion bag. (Hahahaha). The Testosterone Twins crumpled to the ground in a heap after this and Olsen was first to his feet screaming in Thompson’s face instead of celebrating with his teammates. The joy of the sore winner.

-Who is Chukwudi Chijindu. Is his first name a turn of phrase on Wood-Chucky? Nice goal though.

-Why are Matt Pickens & Cory Gibbs sitting on the Colorado bench?

-Looks like Seattle has come back to reality a bit. Two losses in a row now.

-I think I have been completely justified for again speaking ill of the TFC defense. They made absolutely no improvements from last season.

-That save Pat Onstad made on Conor Casey's PK attempt was amazing. He gave it a one hander up and off the cross bar, then got up to save the rebound blast at the other post from point blank range. Awesome job old dude!

My favorite goals of the weekend (in descending order):

-Davis to Ching - header

-Kandji to Angel - give & go

-Lopez to Wolff - first time volley

-Moreno to Olsen - free kick header

-Blanco to McBride - free kick header

-Ralston to Joseph - header

-Ferreria to Cooper - long range blast

-Stepanovic to Chijindu - sliding strike

(You can see them all at MLSnet.com)

Here are the Top MLS Goal Scorers:

4 Conor Casey - Colo

4 Kenny Cooper - FCD

4 Brian McBride - Chic

3 Robbie Findley - RSL

3 Davy Arnaud - KC

3 Fredy Montero - Sea

3 Guillermo Barros Schelotto - Colu

3 Luciano Emilio - DC

Steve Davis at ESPN Soccernet gives us 10 things to know from Week 5.

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Coming up this week, the CONCACAF U17 World Cup qualifying:

USA Group Stage Matches:

-Tue Apr 21

USA v Cuba - 6pm Central time

-Thu Apr 23

USA v Canada - 6pm Central time

-Sat Apr 25

USA v Honduras - 6pm Central time

No TV for any of these games.

Top 2 teams from this group and the other group advance to the semifinals, and the World Cup next fall in Nigeria.

Andrew Rogers at ESPN Soccernet previews the USA U17 team and their quest to qualify for the World Cup.

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Maurice Edu scored the winning goal for Rangers as they topped Hibernian 2-3 on the road! He is becoming a real starter in Glasgow now!

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

CONCACAF Champions League

The Finals for the inaugural season of the CCL kick off on Wednesday night. I have no idea who the favorite is. But I bet Luis Bueno at The Touchline does.

First Leg

-Wed Apr 22

Cruz Azul v Atlante

Second Leg

-Wed Apr 29

Atlante v Cruz Azul (-)

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Still more turmoil at the top of France's Ligue 1 where Lyon lost 1-0 at Bordeaux and have now fallen to 3rd on 60 points, behind Marseille on 64 (1-2 winners at Lorient), and Bordeaux on 62! Lyon's 7 year reign looks to be more finished every week now.

-Our man Ben Lyttleton of the Guardian gives us the full round up on a league race that is exciting for the first time in ages.

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

There were a couple other big rivalry games around the world this weekend:

-Sat Apr 18

Juventus 1-1 Inter - the top 2 in Serie A finish even, putting the league nearly out of reach now for Juve with 6 games to go and Inter up by 10 points.

-Sun Apr 19

PSV 6-2 Ajax - the home team drilled their old foe but the teams sit in 4th & 3rd places respectively, with both losing out badly to AZ who claimed this title this weekend! Twente are #2.

Guadalajara 1-0 America - the Mexican Clasico ends in a thud for deeply troubled CA. The Goats are troubled too, 3 coaches in a month, but they won the biggie.

The sad news in Italy is that Juventus fans joined Roma fans (from earlier in the season) by shouting racist chants at Inter forward Mario Balotelli, who has African heritage. What a bunch of pathetic losers those people who do this crap at. Paolo Bandini of the Guardian with more.

A giant fist pump in the air to AZ Alkmaar who claimed their first Dutch Eredivisie title in nearly 30 years!

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Big congrats to Everton and goalkeeper Tim Howard for beating Manchester United in the English FA Cup Semifinals. The game ended 0-0 and went to a Penalty Kick shootout where Howard made 2 saves (!!!!) and Everton advanced 4-2.

-How bad to you think Howard wanted to beat the team that dumped him?!?!

-Chelsea beat Arsenal in the other Semifinal setting up this final:

English FA Cup Final

-Sat May 30

Chelsea v Everton at Wembley Stadium, London

xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx

Great round up of the week in the USL First Division from Brian Quarstad at Inside Minnesota Soccer. Including criticism of the broadcasts that the league is producing for all their games this season that are FREE via the internet.

First Div Standings

6 Carolina

3 Miami

3 Puerto Rico

2 Charleston

1 Austin

1 Montreal

1 Minnesota

1 Vancouver

0 Portland

0 Rochester

0 Cleveland
