STARTERS

Sochaux with video of a Charlie Davies press conference.

-Says he is pain free. But needs to build up a lot more strength.

-His face looks a lot less puffy now too.

TWITTERVERSE/FACEBOOKING

Twitter message this morning from my buddy Joe: ugh to Danny Califf's haircut and beard. They deserve to not win with that look...

MLS WEEK 1

First Kick Match:

-Thu Mar 25

Seattle Sounders 2-0 Philadelphia Union - SS goals by Brad Evans and Fredy Montero.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 36,241

Match report by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Match report by Joshua Mayers of the Seattle Times.

Post game notes and Seattle player ratings from Mayers.

Post game quotes from Seattle coach & players by Mayers.

Match report from the Tacoma News Tribune.

Match report by Greg Johns of the Seattle Post Intelligencer.

Post game analysis by Art Thiel of the Seattle Post Intelligencer.

Post game analysis by Dave Boling of the Tacoma News Tribune.

Match report by Marc Narducci of the Philadelphia Inquirer.

Match report by Kerith Gabriel of the Philadelphia Daily News.

Match report by Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccnernet.

dN

My Thoughts:

It was a pretty ugly start for Philadelphia last night, and a phantom foul and dive by Freddie Ljungberg led to a Yellow Card which in turn led to a first half Red Card against Philly, which sunk the whole ship. But that is not to excuse Philly's goon tactics on defense. Yes first year pro Finnish centerback Toni Stahl more than earned his 2nd card, and doing it while already being on one card makes him an idiot. The Union also showed that they have little to no offense last night. Honestly, who is going to score any goals for them? I will not judge it all on one game, but they are not going to be one of the good expansion teams, they will be one of the strugglers.

As for the home team, Seattle looked pretty much just like they did last year too. Not surprising seeing the few changes to their roster. Their big need is more offense, and they have not addressed that issue yet. Incredible goal by Fredy Montero to seal the game. Who doesn't love a diving header! Their defense is rock solid again, and I expect nothing else from a Sir Sigmund Schmid team.

dN

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com with words from PU coach Peter Nowak, who bitched about the refs, and other notes.

dN

Steve Davis of the Daily Soccer Fix has no sympathy for Philadelphia's complaining about the referee.

dN

Narducci say league brass are big fans of the Philadelphia supporters.

dN

The Seattle Times on Sounders fans kicking off season 2.

dN

More Matches & Scores

-Fri Mar 26

Chivas USA v Colorado Rapids - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

-Sat Mar 27

Columbus Crew v Toronto FC - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

FC Dallas v Houston Dynamo - 3pm Central on Telefutura

New York Red Bulls v Chicago Fire - 6pm Central on ESPN

Kansas City Wizards v DC United - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

San Jose Earthquakes v Real Salt Lake - 8pm Central on FSC

LA Galaxy v New England Revolution - 10pm Central on FSC

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

One of the strangest things I have seen as this season starts is that Chivas USA and new head coach Martin Vasquez have barely touched last years roster in preparin for the new campaign. Nearly 100% of the time you see a new head coach come in and toss the whole roster out the window, then get the time needed to make it gel. Not so with this team, and is that the answer?

dN

Kansas City has signed Indian forward Sunil Chhetri from the team Dempo SC in his homeland.

-Jeffrey Marcus of the New York Times looks at the significance of Chhetri's signing in India.

dN

The staff at Sports Illustrated make their predictions for the 2010 season.

dN

The Chicago Tribune on the Fire's new coach, The Conch, and revamped team.

-New tactics.

-Projected starters.

dN

Sam Stejskal of Chicago Now previews the Fire's first game of the season - at New York.

dN

The Salt Lake Tribune on RSL's big gun Robbie Findley.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News on RSL's tough early road stretch.

dN

The National Post says Toronto FC is taking the "all hands on deck" approach to this season.

dN

Gareth Wheeler of Slam Sports doesn't like being told by a coach that he should be a cheerleader for the local team.

dN

Slam Sports also gives us 10 things TFC needs to succeed this season.

dN

John Molinaro of the CBC does not see TFC getting it right this year.

dN

The Washington Post on the approach being taken by new DC United coach Curt Onalfo.

dN

Craig Stouffer of the Examiner previews DC United.

dN

John Haydon of the Washington Times also previews DC's season opener.

dN

Graham Jones of the LA Times looks at Chivas and their new head master Martin Vasquez.

dN

Martin Rogers of Yahoo previews MLS 2010.

dN

New England has high hopes for now officially signed versatile Serbian attacking midfielder Marko Perovic. They have also brought back outside midfielder Khano Smith. (I did not see that move coming. Is Pat Noonan next?) The team also released centerback Gabriel Badilla who never really worked out much at all.

dN

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe on the with seperate articles on the Rev's 2 big star players: Shalrie Joseph, and injured forward Taylor Twellman.

dN

Jack Bell of the New York Times with an article on the Red Bulls Estonian central midfielder Joel Lindpere.

-I have a feeling that he could be a good one.

PODCASTS/VIDEOCASTS

The Soccer Show on Toronto Sports Radio FAN 590 starring Nigel Reed & Bob Iarusci welcomes special in studio guest TFC head coach Preki. This should be good. Download or listen here.

MLS RUMORS

Jon Busch signing with San Jose? Really?

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

World Football Insider talks to US bid director David Downs.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

Greece - League Cup

Eddie Johnson - Aris - Played the fianl 6 minutes as they tied 1-1 at Kavala, giving them a 2 legged 4-2 win, and now they advance to the Final v Panathinaikos.

BIG CLUB MATCHES THIS WEEKEND

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 27

AS Roma v Internazionale - #2 (on a streak of 20 without a loss) hosts #1 in a huge Serie A showdown.

Bayer Leverkusen v Schalke 04 - the stumbling #2 hosts the rapidly advancing #2.

Benfica v Braga - #1 v #2 in Portugal with 7 games left to play.

-Sun Mar 28

Real Madrid v Atletico Madrid - El Derbi Madrileno!

Lille v Montpellier - the surprise #2 team goes on the road to #5 trying to protect their Champions League spot for next year.

Galatasaray v Fenerbahce - one the all time great rivalries. Now add in that they are #2 & #4 in the standings and just 1 point apart! Oh Momma!

ENGLAND

Manchester United has signed their weird little winger Nani to a contract extension.

dN

Johnstone's Paint Trophy Final

-Sun Mar 28

Carlisle United v Southampton

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (31 of 38 games played)

69 Manchester United - Next:

68 Chelsea - Next:

67 Arsenal - Next:

55 Tottenham - 30 Played - Next:

- - - - -

53 Manchester City - 30 played - Next:

51 Liverpool - Next:

51 Aston Villa - 30 played - Next:

SPAIN

Top La Liga Team Standings (28 of 38 games played)

68 Real Madrid - 27 played - Next:

71 Barcelona - Next:

53 Valencia - Next:

47 Mallorca - Next:

- - - - -

45 Sevilla - Next:

42 Athletic Bilbao - 27 played - Next:

42 Deportivo La Coruna - 29 played - Next:

FRANCE

COUPE DE LA LIGUE - Final

-Sat Mar 27

Marseille v Bordeaux

dN

Top Ligue 1 Team Standings (29 of 38 games played)

56 Bordeaux - 28 played - Next:

56 Montpellier - Next:

55 Auxerre - Next:

- - - - -

53 Marseille - 28 played - Next:

51 Lille - Next:

51 Lyon - Next:

GERMANY

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (27 of 34 games played)

56 Bayern Munich - Next:

55 Schalke - Next:

53 Bayer Leverkusen - Next:

- - - - -

48 Dortmund - Next:

45 Werder Bremen - Next:

44 Hamburg - Next:

ITALY

Top Serie A Team Standings (30 of 38 games played)

63 Inter - Next:

59 Roma - Next:

59 Milan - Next:

48 Palermo - Next:

- - - - -

47 Sampdoria - Next:

42 Napoli - Next:

45 Juventus - Next:

43 Genoa - Next:

SCOTLAND

Celtic has dismissed struggling manager Tony Mowbray.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Sao Paulo & Alianza Lima have advanced to the knock out stages.

dN

Blooming & Nacional of Paraguay have been eliminated.

dN

GROUP STAGE (runs through to Apr 22) - This Weeks Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 23

Estudiantes 2-0 Bolivar - Est goals by Jose Ernesto Sosa & Mauro Boselli.

Libertad 1-1 Universitario - Lib goal by Victor Ayala. Uni goal by 1 1.

-Wed Mar 24

Lanus 1-0 Blooming - Lan goal by Santiago Salcedo(PK).

Cruzeiro 2-0 Italia - Cru goals by Fabinho & Pedro Ken.

Universidad Catolica 1-1 Caracas - UC goal by Juan Morales. Car goal by Jaime Bustamante.

-Thu Mar 25

Racing Club 1-0 Independiente - RC goal by Santiago Ostolaza.

Quito 1-0 Emelec - Qui goal by Michael Arroyo.

Velez Sarsfield 2-1 Colo Colo - VS goals by Herman Lopez & Santiago Silva. CC goal by Ezequiel Miralles.

dN

Standings (6 Rounds):

Grupo 1 (3 played)

7 Corinthians (Brazil)

7 Racing Club (Uruguay) (4 played)

3 Independiente Medellin (Colombia) (4 played)

1 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay)

Grupo 2 (4 played)

ADV-9 Sao Paulo (Brazil)

8 Once Caldas (Colombia)

2 Monterrey (Mexico)

OUT-0 Nacional (Paraguay)

Grupo 3 (4 played)

ADV-12 Alianza Lima (Peru)

7 Estudiantes de la Plata (Argentina)

3 Juan Aurich (Peru)

1 Bolivar (Bolivia)

Grupo 4 (4 played)

8 Libertad (Paraguay)

8 Universitario (Peru)

6 Lanus (Argentina)

OUT - 0 Blooming (Bolivia)

Grupo 5 (3 played)

7 Cerro (Uruguay)

5 Internacional (Brazil)

4 Deportivo Quito (Ecudador)

0 Emelec (Ecuador)

Grupo 6 (4 played)

10 Banfield (Argentina)

5 Nacional (Uruguay)

4 Morelia (Mexico)

3 Cuenca (Ecudador)

Grupo 7 (4 played)

10 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

7 Cruzeiro (Brazil)

4 Colo Colo (Chile)

1 Italia (Venezuela)

Grupo 8 (3 played)

7 Universidad Chile (Chile)

6 Flamengo (Brazil)

3 Universidad Catolica (Chile) (4 played)

2 Caracas FC (Venezuela) (4 played)

ASIA

The New York Times introduces us to South Korea's Double Dragon.

ENDERS

Three MLS teams will be wearing this new Adidas shirt called Techfit. Obviously some kind of new hi-tec thing. The shirts that have that "snug" fit that does not flatter a guy like me! But folks who want to see plenty of hard bodied athletes will certainly appreciate the qualities.
