STARTERS

Am I wrong or did I hear a Houston player yell "faggot" at someone on the field during their game against Seattle on Friday night? I hope that did not happen. But I am pretty sure it did, and if it did there better be repercussions on the moron who did it.

-Jose Ortiz of the Houston Chronicle reports that it was Colin Clark who yelled that offensive slur at one of the sideline ball crew.

-Clark sent out apologies via Twitter.

dN

Seattle will be opening their entire stadium (65,000) this season for games against rivals Portland & Vancouver, also against LA, and for a friendly with Chelsea.

dN

Amazingly the Dutch Eredivisie is still a 6 teams race with 7 rounds left to go:

56 AZ

55 Ajax

52 Twente

51 PSV

51 Feyenoord

51 Heerenveen

dN

Inter Milan goes looking for their 6th manger in less than 3 full seasons as Claudio Renieri was fired today. WTF?

-Youth academy coach Andrea Stramaccioni has been named as they interim head coach.

NOTICE

Sign up today for MLS Fantasy Soccer Manager, and then become a member of the du Nord Futbol league using this code: 3815-897

123 teams in our league so far. Lets go for 150! Come On!

Palace Eagles - managed by Phillip Lovas is in 1st Place!

TEAM USA - EL EQUIPO DE TODOS

Ryan Dempsey of Goal.com has a four part interview with Jurgen Klinsmann.

-Part 1

-Part 2

-Part 3

-Part 4 (coming soon)

USA U23/OLYMPIC TEAM

Olympic qualifying is under way!

dN

Juan Agudelo tore the meniscus in his knee and will be out approx 4 months. Exactly what this team did not need with such a small roster.

Great win for Canada on Saturday night.

The USA must win on Monday night to advance. The only way a tie will be good enough is if Canada loses to Cuba in the first game.

A lifeless performance by the USA on Saturday let Canada grow in confidence then dictate the pace in the second half and finally get two well deserved goals.

Overconfidence rose up its cliched head and bit the USA right in the face. They were fairly gutless for the entire 90 minutes. And goal keeper Bill Hamid was particularly awful on the first goal. The entire defense went to sleep on goal 2, but give Canada credit for that second one too cuz they wanted it!

You have to imagine that the friendly win over Mexico last month added to the overconfidence of this USA team.

If they can't be El Salvador tonight then they are really a pathetic group.

John Molinaro of Sports Net calls this win by Canada one of the biggest in the countries soccer history. He really wrote that.

One thing that has been driving me insane since Jurgen Klinsmann took over as head coach of the Men's program is this insistent talk of "STYLE." Who cares! How about winning! Win first, worry about how it looks later. The USA is in no position quality wise to be spending 1 minute worrying about how they look doing it. Just get the job done!

US Soccer gives us a preview of the 3rd group stage game, against El Salvador.

dN

Three videos from US Soccer:

-Interviews after loss to Canada.

-Sit down interview with Freddy Adu.

-Preview of El Salvador game.

dN

Official USA website

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 22

USA 6-0 Cuba - USA goals by Joe Benny Corona(3), Juan Agudelo, Arturo Diz Pe(OG) & Freddy Adu.

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

-Sat Mar 24

USA 0-2 Canada - Can goals by Doniel Henry & Lucas Cavallini.

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Post game quotes from USA coach and players by US Soccer.

Player ratings by Mike Woitalla of Soccer America.

Player ratings by John Godfrey of the New York Times.

-Mon Mar 26

USA v El Salvador - 8pm on Universal Sports Network (DirecTV channel 625)

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

dN

USA Roster

G:

1 Bill Hamid - DC United

18 Sean Johnson - Chicago Fire

D:

4 Perry Kitchen - DC United

2 Ike Opara - San Jose Earthquakes

3 Kofi Sarkodie - Houston Dynamo

5 Zarek Valentin - Montreal Impact

13 Jorge Villafana - Chivas USA

19 Sheanon Williams - Philadelphia Union

M:

7 Freddy Adu - Philadelphia Union

10 Joe Corona - Tijuana

8 Mix Diskerud - Gent

6 Jared Jeffrey - Mainz

16 Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

20 Michael Stephens - LA Galaxy

F:

9 Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

15 Terrence Boyd - Dortmund

12 Teal Bunbury - Sporting Kansas City

14 Joe Gyau - Hoffenheim

11 Brek Shea - FC Dallas

17 Tony Taylor - Estoril

dN

El Salvador Roster

G:

Diego Cuellar - Atletico Marte

Jimmy Cuellar - Alianza FC

D:

Alexander Vidal - Atletico Marte

Moises Xavier Garcia - Firpo

Alexander Mendoza - UES

Milton Molina - Metapan

M:

Jaime Alas - Firpo

Richard Menjivar - Cal State Bakersfield

Darwin Ceren - Juventud Independiente

Elman Rivas - Alianza FC

Marlon Martinez - Firpo

Herbert Sosa - Alianza FC

Jorge Moran - Metapan

Edwin Sanchez - Metapan

Andres Flores - Viborg

Diego Chavarria - Once Municipal

F:

Jonathan Aguila - Aguila

Jose Gutierrez - Aguila

Dustin Corea - Blokhus FC

Lester Blanco - Metapan

dN

Canada Roster

G:

Adam Janssen - no club

Michal Misiewicz - FC Edmonton

D:

Nana Attakora - no club

Andres Fresenga - Racing Club Montevideo

Doneil Henry - Toronto

M:

Bryce Alderson - Vancouver Whitecaps

Drew Beckie - no club

Kyle Bekker - Boston College

Philippe Davies - no club

Sherif El-Masri - Courts Young Lions

Evan James - Montreal Impact

Samuel Piette - Metz

Shaun Saiko - Edmonton

Matt Stinson - Toronto

Russell Teibert - Vancouver Whitecaps

F:

Lucas Cavallini - Club Nacional

Randy Edwini-Bonsu - Eintracht Braunsweig

Marcus Haber - St Johnstone

Carl Haworth - Montreal Impact

Babayele Sodade - Seattle Sounders

2012 CONCACAF OLYMPIC QUALIFYING TOURNAMENT

8 teams enter, 2 teams leave.

Mexico became the first team to advance, while Cuba was the first team bounced. The other 6 teams are all still in the battle in the final matchday.

Nigel Reed of the CBC on Canada's chance to advance.

The Group Stage is a round-robin with the top 2 from each group advancing to the Semifinals. Then the winners of the two Semifinal games go to the Olympics.

All games can also be seen online at CONCACAF.com

STANDINGS

Group A

4 El Salvador (+4)

4 Canada (+2)

3 USA (+4)

OUT-0 Cuba (-10)

Group B

ADV-6 Mexico (+9)

3 Honduras (-1)

1 Panama (-2)

1 Trinidad & Tobago (-6)

GROUP STAGE

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 22

El Salvador 0-0 Canada

USA 6-0 Cuba

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

-Fri Mar 23

Honduras 3-1 Panama

Trinidad & Tobago 1-7 Mexico

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Sat Mar 24

Cuba 0-4 El Salvador

USA 0-2 Canada

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

-Sun Mar 25

Panama 1-1 Trinidad & Tobago

Mexico 3-0 Honduras

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Mon Mar 26

Canada v Cuba - 5:30pm

USA v El Salvador - 8pm on Universal Sports Network (DirecTV channel 625)

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

-Tue Mar 27

Honduras v Trinidad & Tobago - 8pm

Mexico v Panama - 10:30pm

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

SEMIFINALS

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 31

B1 v A2 - 5pm

A1 v B2 - 8pm

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park - Kansas City KS

FINAL

Matches & Scores:

-Mon Apr 2

Semifinal winners - 7pm

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park - Kansas City KS

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Quarterfinals

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tells us how APOEL gets it done.

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Mar 27

Benfica v Chelsea - 1:30pm on Fox Soccer - live

APOEL v Real Madrid - 4:00pm on Fox Soccer - delayed

-Wed Mar 28

AC Milan v Barcelona - 1:30pm on Fox Soccer - live

Marseille v Bayern Munich - 4:00pm on Fox Soccer - delayed

2011-12 CONCACACHAMPIONS

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Wed Mar 28

Toronto v Santos Laguna - 7pm CT on Fox Soccer - live

Monterrey v UNAM Pumas - 9pm CT on Fox Soccer - live

QUOTE OF THE DAY

On getting ready for Monday’s match: “I think that if you can’t get up for that to go to the Olympics, then you shouldn’t be here.”

-USA U23 forward Brek Shea on facing El Salvador with a spot in the CONCACAF Olympic qualifying Semifinals on the line.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 24

Chelsea 0-0 Tottenham - a London derby ends in basically a loss for each team.

Milan 2-1 Roma - blood rivals.

-Sun Mar 25

Juventus 2-0 Inter - they hate each other but Juve got to go home smiling!

Ajax 2-0 PSV - long time rivals and the Amsterdam team gets the upper hand.

DO YOU REALIZE

"Messi wants to play for the team; Ronaldo wants the team to play for him."

Bobby McMahon of Forbes on the pretty damn amazing side by side stories of Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo.

HMMMMM, VERY INTERESTING

The Olympic Stadium in Rio de Janeiro aka Engenhao, home of Botafogo & Fluminense, will host the UFC Middleweight championship fight between belt holder Anderson Silva and Chael Sonnen on Sat Jun 23!

-Capacity is listed as 46,900.

FACT OF THE DAY

Alex Miller & Nick Harris of Sporting Intelligence write about the amount of taxes that English football clubs have avoided by going in to "administration." Stunning.

-Includes links to government tax documents.

-Thanks to Mark for sending us this.

PICTURE OF THE DAY

Dominic Oduro of the Chicago Fire helps the supporters of Section 8 painting tifo for the home opener. Read all about it here.

-Thanks to our main man DanG for the link!

MLS MATCHES & SCORES

WEEK 3

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Mar 23

Seattle Sounders FC 2-0 Houston Dynamo - SS goals by David Estrada & Brad Evans(PK).

Venue: CenturyLink Field

Atten: 38,304

-Sat March 24

Toronto FC 0-3 San Jose Earthquakes - SJE goals by Chrow Wondolowski(2) & Shea Salinas.

Venue: BMO Field

Atten: 20,070

New England Revolution 1-0 Portland Timbers - NER goal by Saer Sene.

Venue: Gillette Stadium

Atten: 12,925

Columbus Crew 2-0 Montreal Impact - CC goals by Milovan Mirosevic(PK) & Olman Vargas.

Venue: Crew Stadium

Atten: 18,197

Chicago Fire SC 1-0 Philadelphia Union - CF goal by Dominic Oduro.

Venue: Toyota Park

Atten: 18,075

Real Salt Lake 0-1 CD Chivas USA - CCU goal by Casey Townsend.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium

Atten: 20,415

Vancouver Whitecaps FC 0-0 DC United

Venue: BC Place

Atten: 19,394

-Sun Mar 25

New York Red Bulls 4-1 Colorado Rapids - NYR goals by Thierry Henry(2) & Kenny Cooper(2). CR goal by Omar Cummings.

Venue: Red Bull Arena

Atten: 21,024

Sporting Kansas City 2-1 FC Dallas - SKC goals by Aurelien Collin & Kei Kamara. FCD goal by Ricardo Villar.

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park

Atten: 15,161

Bye: LA Galaxy

MLS MATCH NOTES

Ejections:

-Jeb Brovsky - Montreal - red card

Average Attendance this round: 20,396

A goal was given to Seattle's David Estrada but his shot was off target and deflected off Houston's Geoff Cameron, so it should be scored as an own goal.

Rafa Marquez of New York was very lucky to not get his second yellow card, which he nicely earned with rugby tackle.

Thierry Henry gave all the credit for New York's quality performance to Wilman Conde.

-All long time MLS watcher know that when he is healthy Conde is very good.

George John started for the first time this season for FCD.

Nick Rimando v Dan Kennedy is a great goalkeeper duel on paper, but neither had much to do until late when Rimando coughs one up and loses the game, and Kennedy makes a huge lunging save to save it for his team!

TFC rested Danny Koevermans but played the rest of the regulars as they got blown out at home by San Jose. Does not bode well for their Champions League form.

-The Toronto defense is again a complete shambles! two games played and six goals allowed. And they were lucky Wondo only got 2 against them and didn't have 3 or 4 goals, as he blew open chances.

Whats the deal with the Ghouls in the stands in Columbus????? Creepy!

Goals to watch and live by:

-Ricardo Villar of Dallas with a deft free kick goal, but KC made it way too easy, the keeper gave him 2/3s of the goal.

-Dominic Oduro leaps and twists to smash home a header for Chicago.

-Driving, slashing powerful header by Omar Vargas of Columbus.

-Chris Tierney of New England with a great long cross and Saer Sene using his head to tip the ball over Portland's keeper for the only goal just 28 seconds into the match to boot!

-And the best for last, how many times have you seen Thierry Henry and ONLY Theirry Henry pull off both of these two stunts: First stealing a weak defensive pass and punking a centerback and keeper; and then blasting behind a back four off a perfect pass from Wilman Conde! Just gorgeous!

MLS STANDINGS

EAST

9 Sporting Kansas City (+5)

6 Houston Dynamo (0)

4 Chicago Fire SC (+1)

3 Columbus Crew (0)

3 New York Red Bulls (0)

3 New England (-3)

1 DC United (-3)

1 Montreal Impact (-4)

0 Philadelphia Union (-4)

0 Toronto (-5)

WEST

7 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (+3)

6 Seattle Sounders FC (+4)

6 Real Salt Lake (+3)

6 San Jose Earthquakes (+3)

6 Colorado Rapids (0)

4 Portland Timbers (+1)

4 FC Dallas (0)

3 LA Galaxy (0)

3 CD Chivas USA (-1)

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

New York Red Bulls forward Thierry Henry was named MLS Player of the Week.

Kyle McCarthyof Goal.com with his Monday Morning Breakdown.

Graham Parker & Joe Prince-Wright of the Guardian with five things we learned in week three.

Player Transactions

Kansas City has released midfielder Birahim Diop who has been with the team the previous 2 seasons.

COLORADO RAPIDS

The Raps finally received transfer paper for new attacking midfielder Martin Rivero, and he can suit up right away for the team. That took too long.

-Nick Groke of the Post with details.

Andrew Villegasof of the Post has Rapids player ratings from loss to New York.

NEW YORK RED BULLS

Jack Bell of the Times talks to Juan Agudelo who has suffered a torn meniscus and will be out for approx two months.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

Sounders will host Chelsea on Jul 18 as the number of summer friendlies begins to climb.

TORONTO FC

TFC goalkeeper Stefan Frei will miss eight to 10 weeks of action after breaking his left leg during a practice session on Friday.

MLS STADIUMS

There will be a sneak peak of Houston's new BBVA Compass Stadium with a game featuring the Houston Dynamo U18 v the USA U17 on May 10. The official opening is May 12.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Fox Soccer talks to former USA great Brian McBride and asks him where he sees the future of soccer in America headed.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Michael Parkhurst pulled off a rare one for him and got the game winning goal for Nordsjaelland!

Josh Gatt returned from Olympic duty and gave his team Molde the winning goal in the season opener.

Jozy Altidore came on at half time for AZ and within 2 minutes set up the games only goal.

Eric Lichaj came on as a sub for Aston Villa but was booked for a foul in stoppage time that Arsenal converted into a goal.

Sacha Kljestan & Anderlecht begin their 10 game playoff tournament next weekend.

dN

Game Action:

DENMARK - Superliga

Clarence Goodson - Brondy - played the full 90 as they won 2-1 v Lyngby.

Conor O'Brien - SonderjyskE - played the whole game getting a yellow card as they won 1-2 at AaB.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - went the distance getting a yellow card and scoring a goal as they won 0-2 v Horsens.

Chris Rolfe - Aalborg - on the bench as they lost 1-2 v SonderjyskE.

Brad Rusin - HB Koge - came on as a sub in the 85th min as they won 2-4 v Odense.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - went the distance but lost 1-0 at Man United.

Brad Friedel - Tottenham - went the full 90 as they tied 0-0 at Chelsea.

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - on the bench as they lost 3-0 at Arsenal.

Tim Howard - Everton - played the whole game as they won 0-2 at Swansea.

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - came on as a sub in the 78th min getting a yellow card as they lost 3-0 at Arsenal.

Tim Ream - Bolton - played the whole match and they won 2-1 v Blackburn.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - played the entire match picking up a yellow card as they won 2-1 v Wolverhampton.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Robbie Rogers - Leeds - on the bench as they won 0-1 at Millwall.

ENGLAND - League One

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - played the entire match and they tied 1-1 at Colchester.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Timmy Chandler - Nurnberg - played the entire game but lost 1-0 at Stuttgart.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - played the entire game getting a yellow card and losing 2-1 at Bayern.

Fabian Johnson - Hoffenheim - went the distance as they won 1-2 at Gladbach.

Jermaine Jones - Schalke - played the full 90 getting a yellow card as they won 2-0 v Leverkusen.

Daniel Williams - Hoffenheim - started and played 58 min as they won 1-2 at Gladbach.

Andrew Wooten - Kaiserslautern - on the bench but lost 2-0 at Freiburg.

David Yelldell - Bayer Leverkusen - on teh bench as they lost 2-0 at Schalke.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Villyan Bijev - Fortuna Dusseldorf - on the bench as tied 1-1 v Eintracht Braunschweig.

Matt Taylor - Paderborn - came on as a sub in the 71st min but lost 1-2 v Duisburg.

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich - on the bench as they won 0-1 at Dynamo Dresden.

ITALY - Serie A

Michael Bradley - Chievo Verona - went the whole game as they drew 1-1 v Siena.

NETHERLANDS - Eredivisie

Jozy Altidore - AZ Alkmaar - came on as a sub at half time as they won 1-0 v RKC Waalwijk.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Ricardo Clark - Stabaek - went the full 90 getting a yellow card as they drew 0-0 v Aalesund.

Steve Clark - Honefoss - played the full match as they drew 0-0 v Lillestrom.

Sean Cunningham - Stabaek - played the whole game as they drew 0-0 v Aalesund.

Josh Gatt - Molde - went the distance scoring a goal as they won 2-1 v Stromsgodget.

Kenneth Di Vita Jensen - Honefoss - started and went 75 min of a scoreless game v Lillestrom.

PORTUGAL - Primeira Liga

Alex Zahavi - Vitoria Setubal - on the bench as they won 1-0 v Uniao de Leiria.

PORTUGAL - Liga de Honra

Caleb Patterson-Sewell - Atletico CP - went the full 90 but lost 0-1 v Portimonense.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Alejandro Bedoya - Rangers - on the bench as they won 3-2 v Celtic.

Carlos Bocanegra - Rangers - started but got red carded in the 88th min as they won 3-2 v Celtic.

Mo Edu - Rangers - went the full 90 as they won 3-2 v Celtic.

dN

Coming Up:

ENGLAND - Championship League

Robbie Findley - Nottingham Forest - Tue Mar 27 at Leicester

ENGLAND - League One

Anton Peterlin - Wallsall - Tue Mar 27 v Colchester

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - Tue Mar 27 at Milton Keynes

dN

Coming Up:

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Yup! Herculez scores again! 5 goals on the season.

And The Beaz scored again too! Give that man 90 minutes and let him run loose!

dN

Game Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

DaMarcus Beasley - Puebla - started and was subbed off in 2nd half stoppage time after scoring a goal and getting a yellow card as they drew 1-1 v Cruz Azul.

Edgar Castillo - Tijuana - played the whole game as they won 2-0 v Atlas.

Herculez Gomez - Santos Laguna - went the distance scoring a goal as they won 2-0 v Queretaro.

Michael Orozco Fiscal - San Luis - played the whole game but lost 2-3 v Atlante.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - went the full 90 but lost 3-2 at Chiapas

ENGLAND

FA Cup - Quarterfinals

Replay Tie Game

-Tue Mar 27

Sunderland v Everton

Replay Abandon Game

-Tue Mar 27

Tottenham v Bolton

SPAIN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Osasuna's dream of the Champions League and the rest of the round in La Liga.

GERMANY

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on the charge of Schalke and a review of the other Bundesliga games from the weekend.

Honigstein writing for Sports Illustrated calls Schalke forward Klaas Jan Huntelaar the worlds best goal finisher.

ITALY

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on the joy of Alessandro Del Piero and another blasting of Inter, plus the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

EUROPE

Championships

A look at the title races in the top 6 leagues of Europe as of Sun Mar 25:

-Bundesliga is a 2 to 4 team race: Dortmund(62) & Bayern (57) and then Schalke(53) & Gladbach(51)

-Premier League is a 2 team race: Man U(70) & Man City(70)

-Serie A is down to a 2 team race: Milan(63) & Juve(59)

-Ligue 1 is a 2 team race: Montpellier (60) & PSG (60)

-Primera Division is a 2 team race again: Real Madrid(75) & Barca(69)

-Eredivisie is still a 6 teams race: AZ(56), Ajax(55), Twente(52), PSV(51), Feyenoord(51) & Heerenveen(51)

Relegation

Serie A (29 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

33 Siena

33 Fiorentina

32 Parma

-----

27 Lecce

24 Novara

18 Cesena

Premier League (30 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

28 Blackburn

26 Bolton (29 GP)

-----

25 Queens Park Rangers

25 Wigan

22 Wolverhampton

Ligue 1 (29 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

31 Ajaccio

30 Brest

29 Caen

-----

28 Nice

27 Sochaux

24 Auxerre

La Liga (29 of 38 played)

-bottom 3 relegated

32 Real Betis

31 Villarreal

31 Granada (28 GP)

-----

25 Racing Santander

25 Sporting Gijon

25 Real Zaragoza

Bundesliga (27 of 34 played)

-bottom 2 relegated - then - 3rd from bottom play 2.Bundes 3rd from top in 2 legs

28 Freiburg

28 Koln

27 Augsburg

-----

27 Hamburg

-----

26 Hertha

20 Kaiserslautern

COPA LIBERTADORES

ADVANCED: -(none)

ELIMINATED: Juan Aurich (Peru)

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 27

Nacional v Alianza Lima

Tachira v Nacional Asuncion

Universidad Chile v Penarol

-Wed Mar 28

Defensor Sporting v Guadalajara

Universidad Catholica v Union Espanola

Olimpia v Flamengo

-Thu Mar 29

Boca Juniors v Arsenal

Zamora v Fluminense
