A 0-1 win at Portsmouth today moved Brad Friedel and Aston Villa up to a tie for 2nd place in the EPL, but they have played one more game than Liverpool. None the less - amazing!

MLS Team News

CD CHIVAS USA

They re-signed Swiss midfielder Raphael Wicky. Let's hope he plays more than the 10 or so seconds he played last season.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

The Quakes have a sponsor for the front of their shirts -it's Amway Global. Here is the logo.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS FC

The team has signed Cuban midfielder Osvaldo Alonso from First Division team Charleston.

The team's Domestic Preseason Matches:

-Feb 9 at LA Galaxy (training game)

-Feb 10 v Shandong Luneng (China) in Oxnard CA (training game)

-Feb 11 at Ventura County Fusion (PDL) (open to the public)

-Feb 13 v San Jose Earthquakes in San Luis Obispo CA (open to the public)

-Feb 20 at U Portland (NCAA) (open to the public)

-Feb 22 v Vancouver Whitecaps (USL-1) at Qwest Field (closed)

-Mar 12 v Colorado Rapids at Qwest Field (closed)

MLS Expansion News

The Ottawa Citizens reports that the MLS Expansion scouting circus rolled into town today.

Soccer In America

Billy Witz of the New York Times tells us that your best bet to becoming a long time member of the US national team is to become a left fullback.

Americans In Europe

Landon Donovan at Bayern Munich

Here is what is on the docket for Landon Donovan and Bayern Munich over the next 2 weeks:

-Friendlies:

Bayern Munich 3-0 Bamberg -Sat Jan 17 - the game was played on a snow covered pitch with an orange ball. LD came on at half time already up 2-0 and did not figure in the last goal.

Kaiserslautern 0-2 Bayern Munich - Mon Jan 19 - LD came on as a sub in the 62nd minute and scored on a great glancing header to seal the win.

Bayern Munich 5-0 Mainz - Thu Jan 22 - Came on in the 60th minute and this time Landon bags 2!

-DFB Pokal Round of 16:

Stuttgart 1-5 Bayern Munich - Tue Jan 27 - LD came on as a sub in the 67th minute with the score already 0-5.

Match report from Bayern's website.

-Bundesliga:

Hamburger v Bayern Munich - Fri Jan 30 - live at 1:30pm Central on GolTV.

Upcoming Matches

All games on Wed Jan 28:

England Premiership

-Tim Howard - Everton - v Arsenal

-Jonathan Spector - West Ham - v Hull

England Championship

-Eddie Johnson - Cardiff - at Coventry

German DFB Pokal

-Heath Pearce - Hansa Rostock - at Wolfsburg

Most Recent Matches

(only players who saw the field are listed)

All games from Tue Jan 27:

England Premiership

-Clint Dempsey - Fulham - played the entire match but they lost 1-0 at Sunderland.

-Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance as they beat Portsmouth 0-1 on the road.

England League One

-Jemal Johnson - Milton Keynes - played all 90 but lost at home 1-2 to Leyton Orient.

Italy Serie B

-Danny Szetela - Brescia - came on as a sub in the 83rd minute as they drew at Sassuolo 0-0.

German DFB Pokal

-Landon Donovan - Bayern Munich - came on as a sub in the 67th minute and they won big 1-5 away to Stuttgart. They move on to the quarterfinals now.

-Gregg Berhalter - 1860 Munich - played the full match but lost at Hamburg 3-1.

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying News

Where will the USA play their other 4 [CORRECTED] home qualifiers in the Hexagon (game 1 is in Columbus)? They have already said that they will not play any games on grass or a field that has grass laid over fake turf. That eliminates places like Boston, Portland & Seattle right off the top. Dallas, Salt Lake, Los Angeles and Chicago all have nice MLS stadiums with real grass to they are in. I can't imagine this round going by without a game at RFK in Washington DC either. So where else could the games be held? In the past Cleveland, Hartford and Birmingham have all played host to the USA. What about Houston or Phoenix. The Bay Area. The Carolinas. Anyone with other ideas?

UNCAF Championship

Central American Championship website

This 7 team tournament, being hosted by Honduras, will qualify 5 teams for next summers CONCACAF Gold Cup. The 4 semifinalists and the 5th place game winner will advance. [CORRECTED]

Group A

*9 Honduras +6

*4 El Salvador +3

2 Nicaragua -3

1 Belize -4

Group B

*6 Costa Rica +5

0 Guatemala -2

0 Panama -3

* have qualified for the semifinals.

Tuesday's final group stage game between Panama and Guatemala will determine the 4th team to advance. The losers goes into the 5th place game.

Group Stage Matches & Scores:

-Thu Jan 22

El Salvador 1-1 Nicaragua - El S goal by Carlos Ayala. Nica goal by Marlon Medina.

Honduras 2-1 Belize - Hond goals by Walter Martinez & Amando Guevara(PK). Beli goal by Lisbey Castillo.

-Fri Jan 23

Costa Rica 3-0 Panama - CR goals by Andy Furtado & Alvaro Sanchez.

-Sat Jan 24

Belize 1-4 El Salvador - Beli goal by Jeremy James. El S goals by Alfredo Pacheco (3, one via PK) & Ramon Sanchez.

Honduras 4-1 Nicaragua - Hond goals by Mario Cesar, Danilo Turcios, Saul Martinez & Walter Martinez. Nica goal by Armando Ismael Reyes.

-Sun Jan 25

Guatemala 1-3 Costa Rica - Guat goal by Marco Papa. CR goals by Alvaro Sanchez, Pablo Herrera & Roberto Segura.

-Mon Jan 26

Nicaragua 1-1 Belize - Nica goal by Juan Berrera. Beli goal by Byron Usher.

Honduras 2-0 El Salvador - Hond goals by Carlos Pavon(PK) & Marvin Chavez.

-Tue Jan 27

Panama v Guatemala -

Mexico & FMF News

National Team Match & Score:

-Wed Jan 28

Mexico v Sweden - in Oakland CA at McAfee Stadium

Copa Libertadores

The final play-in round of the Libertadores starts on Tuesday. 6 teams will advance to the group stage which begins on Tue Feb 10.

Pre-Round 1st leg Matches & Scores:

-Tue Jan 27

El Nacional (Ecuador) v Nacional (Paraguay)

-Wed Jan 28

Independiente Medellin (Colombia) v Penarol (Uruguay)

Universidad de Chile (Chile) v Pachuca (Mexico)

-Thu Jan 29

Sporting Cristal (Peru) v Estudiantes (Argentina)

Deportivo Anzoategui (Venezuela) v Deportivo Cuenca (Ecuador)

Palmeiras (Brazil) v Real Potosi (Bolivia)

European News

FRANCE

Coupe de France

15 teams have advanced to the Round of 16, with one game yet to be played in this round. Here are the teams who advanced: En Avant Guingamp, AC Ajaccio, Lille, Toulouse, Dijon FCO, Lorient, US Boulogne, Rodez AF, AS Vitre, CS Sedan Ardennes, Stade Rennes, Le Mans, Grenoble, Paris St Germain & Monaco.

Round of 32 Match & Score:

-Wed Jan 28

Lyon v Marseille

GERMANY

DFB Pokal

Round of 16 Matches & Scores:

-Tue Jan 27

Freiburg 1-3 Mainz

Stuttgart 1-5 Bayern Munich

Hamburg 3-1 1860 Munich

Carl Zeiss Jena 1-4 Schalke

-Wed Feb 28

Bayer Leverkusen v Energie Cottbus

Karlsruher v Wehen Wiesbaden

Wolfsburg v Hansa Rostock

Borussia Dortmund v Werder Bremen

SPAIN

Copa Del Rey

Quarterfinal 2nd leg Matches & Scores (with 1st leg scores included):

-Wed Jan 28

Sporting Gijon v Athletic Bilbao (0-0)

Barcelona v Espanyol (0-0)

Real Betis v Mallorca (0-1)

Sevilla v Valencia (2-3)
