-Steven Cohen from the World Soccer Daily radio show says "Carlos Bocanegra has been given permission to leave Fulham."

-The new stadium in Dallas is now open, but it didn't look like much on TV. I'm sure it's pretty great to be there in person. And it was nice to see a decent sized crowd down there as well. It was fun seeing El Pescadito light up the scoreboard with two AWESOME goals, but it was just as much fun watching Youri get 2 back for the Mets. Final score was 2-2.

Here are the other MLS scores from the weekend:

Real Salt Lake 2-1 Chivas - Cleetus gets the boot early, and his team thrives without his lame ass. What is his problem?

New England 1-2 Kansas City - New England is now doing the exact opposite of the past 3 seasons. They used to start slow and end fast, now they started great and are going right down the shoot into the manure pile.

Chicago 2-3 DC United - didnt see it, dont know much about it, but word on the street is that lil Freddie hurt his knee. Not good.

Colorado 2-0 Galaxy - in the first 7 minutes of the broadcast they mentioned that the Thunder beat Colorado in the Open Cup about 10 times. It was hilarious. Jeff Cunningham scored yet again in a really boring game. Too bad the Galaxy stink. See ya Steve (very soon I hope)! And Sigi really wants an MLS job bad.

San Jose 2-1 Columbus - again, didnt see it, but check out the fact that San Jose has leaped to the top of the Supporters Shield Table! I thought Dom Kinnear was gonna get fired during the season. I am a fool. A big fool.

Single Table:

37 San Jose

36 New England

36 Chicago

35 FC Dallas

32 DC United

32 Kansas City

29 Metrostars

29 Los Angeles

24 Colorado

21 Columbus

19 Real Salt Lake

12 Chivas USA

-Holy Moly - I just read that Colorado is trying to sign Diego Serna! Why? He is a cancer!

-Eddie Johnson started for Dallas on Saturday but said this after the game to the Dallas Morning News: "I couldn't make the runs I normally make," Johnson said. "My toe started getting sore." Not good to hear.

-Some stuff from overseas: Kasey Keller & Monchengladbach got smoked by Bayern 3-0. Oooooof! Bobby Convey started the season ON THE FIELD (!) for Reading, but they lost 2-1 to Preston. Marcus Hahnemann was in goal for Reading. Eddie Lewis made a big impact in his first game for Leeds, as he set up the first goal and his team won 2-1 over Millwall and their still heinous fans. Greg Berhalter scored on a PK (who woulda thought he'd be takin em?) and Cottbus beat Braunschweig 2-1.

-Who would have guess that by early August the best midfield in MLS would belong to San Jose. Dwayne DeRosario, Mark Chung, Brad Davis, and Ricardo Clark are tearing up opponents. Cool!

-This sounds pretty damn weird, but supposedly Real Madrid plans on opening a THEME PARK(??????????) in south Florida. I really don't get it. Jeff Rusnak, who writes a great Sunday soccer column for the Sun Sentinel, has the story: Real Madrid targets Miami

-Man U have sold another player, this time its Brazilian Kleberson who is off to Besiktas in Turkey.

-Mexico this weekend:

Pumas 1-0 Chivas

Cruz Azul 1-0 Atlas

Pachuca 0-0 America

Tecos 2-2 Veracruz

Toluca 2-1 San Luis

Chiapas 1-1 Necaxa

Atlante 0-0 Santos

Morelia 2-2 Monterrey

Tigres 3-1 Dorados

-Simon Kuper writes about the exciting player from Ghana, Michael Essien, in the London Financial Times: The mute monster in harmony with football's zeitgeist

-Rob Hughes from the International Herald Tribune writes about the incredible looking new stadium in Munich that Bayern & 1860 play at: New arena inspires Bayern from start
