-There were more people then I expected named to the USA squad for Saturdays match in Glasgow:

Goalkeepers:

Tim Howard

Kasey Keller

Defenders:

Gregg Berhalter

Carlos Bocanegra

Steve Cherundolo

Jimmy Conrad

Oguchi Onyewu

Heath Pearce

Jonathan Spector

Midfielders:

DaMarcus Beasley

Brian Carroll

Benny Feilhaber

Eddie Gaven

Ben Olsen

Santino Quaranta

Kerry Zavagnin

Forwards:

Brian Ching

Brian McBride

Chris Rolfe

Josh Wolff

Some genuine surprises on that list!!! And most people will be asking, "Who the hell is Heath Pearce???" (More on him later) Fielhaber, Gaven & Rolfe all not expected by me. Zavagnin a bit of a surprise too. No Pablo Mastroeni or Eddie Lewis though? I find that odd. Kinda thought we would see more MLS defenders and midfielders too. We already knew Bobby Convey and Marcus Hahnemann weren't gonna get the call. Not to mention the players from Los Angeles and New England playing in the MLS Cup on Sunday.

Who will be the 18 on the game day roster is the real question though.

-So the deal with Clint Dempsey's goal celebration was this: He stopped, dropped, and rolled, to "put out the Fire"! Clever huh?

-The five nominees for the African Footballer of the Year award (the winner will be announced on January 9):

Samuel Eto'o - Barcelona & Cameroon

Didier Drogba - Chelsea & Cote d'Ivoire

Michael Essien - Chelsea & Ghana

Emmanuel Adebayor - Monaco & Togo

Marouane Chamakh - Bordeaux & Moroccan

-Former New Eng Rev keeper Adin Brown played the year in Norway for Aalesunds, but unfortunately there were relegated last weekend. He is now looking for a new club.

-Christian Gomez of DC United will miss the first game of next season as punishment for his red card (spitting on CJ Brown) in DC's humiliating 0-4 loss to Chicago in their last game of the season. He was also fined $1000.

-Here's a partial transcript of a radio interview with former Salt Lake player Brian Kamler, who is now in charge of player development for the club.

-Feature story on the regeneration of Fiorentina, led by Stefano Fiore & Luca Toni from the UEFA Magazine.

-Steve Davis of the Dallas Morning News has published his own 10 Most Powerful People In American Soccer. Good reading.

-An excellent quote from Juve forward Adrian Mutu on Italians who dive, which he sees as a big problem in Seria A: "...you have players who have great physical strength, like Totti and Alberto Gilardino, who go down in the first contact when they could remain on their feet."

-JEF United Chiba won the J-League Cup by beating Gamba Osaka 5-4 on penalties after finishing the match tied 0-0.

-See DaMarcus Beasley score (along with the other 2 goals)from last Saturday's 3-0 by PSV over Sparta Rotterdam.

-Romanian superstar Gheorghe Hagi was named coach of Hungarian club Poli Timisoara.

-Official Groups and Match Schedule for 2006 Interliga tournament - which qualifies 2 Mexican teams for Copa Libertadores:

Group A

Monterrey

Morelia

Pachuca

Veracruz

Group B

Guadalajara

Necaxa

UANL

Toluca

INTERLIGA 2006 SCHEDULE (All doubleheaders / all local times)

Wednesday, January 4, 2006 - Reliant Stadium (Houston)

Game 1 - Group B - Toluca v Necaxa - 7pm

Game 2 - Group B - Tigres v Guadalajara - 9:30pm

Thursday, January 5, 2006 - La Joya Stadium (La Joya, Texas)

Game 3 - Group A - Pachuca v Veracruz - 7pm

Game 4 - Group A - Monterrey v Morelia - 9:30pm

Saturday, January 7, 2006 - Pizza Hut Park

Game 5 - Group B - Necaxa v Tigres - 6pm

Game 6 - Group B - Guadalajara v Toluca - 8:30pm

Sunday, January 8, 2006 - Pizza Hut Park

Game 7 - Group A - Morelia v Pachuca - 4pm

Game 8 - Group A - Veracruz v Monterrey - 6:30pm

Tuesday, January 10, 2006 - The Home Depot Center

Game 9 - Group B - Tigres v Toluca - 6:30pm

Game 10- Group B - Necaxa v Guadalajara - 9pm

Wednesday, January 11, 2006 - The Home Depot Center

Game 11 - Group A - Morelia v Veracruz - 6:30pm

Game 12 - Group A - Monterrey v Pachuca - 9pm

Sunday, January 15, 2006 - The Home Depot Center

Final 1 - 3pm

Final 2 - 5:30pm

-Pavel Nedved is definitely playing for his Czech Republic on Saturday and Wednesday in the World Cup Qualifying playoff v Norway

-Salt Lake's Eddie Pope in on-line chat. The 2 best questions were:

Karen from North Carolina Who is your favorite older sister?

Eddie Pope Stop clogging up the chat Sis.

George from North Carolina What role did your father play in your soccer development?

Eddie Pope Hey Dad, stop clogging up the chat

-Marc Connally on how the Rev are feeling going into Sundays MLS Cup final.

-My Minnesota Thunder have announced that next spring they will be fielding their first ever women's team, which will play in the W-League. My guess is that they will play in the Midwest Division of the 5 geographically divided Divisions. The team is looking for a nickname. Got any suggestions?

-Alexi Lalas says he still hopes to name a new Metrostars coach this week.

-Avery John will not be available to New England for the Cup final on Sunday. He has chosen to go play for his country Trinidad & Tobago in their World Cup Qualifying playoff with Bahrain.

-Houston Chronicle Week In Review

-Rob Hughes writes in the International Herald Tribune about the country that is burning: France's team flies far in pursuit of harmony

-Jonsey on Hercules. From the LA Times.

-Question of the day? Who is Heath Pearce?

Left Back

5' 10' - 175 lbs.

21 years old

Brandenton Academy grad

University of Portland - 3 years (left early)

USA U17 & U20 team member

Starts for Norjaelland in Denmark SAS Ligaen - currently 5th in 12 team league - other teams you may have heard of in that league: Brondby & Aarhus.
