It's Day 178 of 2017.

Reminder: The new Adrian Heath radio show with host Jamie Watson will air on Tuesdays at 6pm CT on 1500ESPN radio. Listen here. That's tonight!

dN

German tabloid newspaper Bild got their hands on the secret FIFA Ethics Committee internal investigation into the bidding and voting for the World Cup's in 2018 (Russia) and 2022 (Qatar) aka "The Garcia Report." Bild announced plans to publish the report, and so as a preemptive strike FIFA have now gone ahead and released it themselves.

The investigation found no smoking guns.

A little summary of the report. By Graham Dunbar and Rob Harris for the AP.

dN

du Nord MLS Team Hot List Power Rankings:

(Based solely on science using the 5 previous games, with no bias for prior standing or projections.)

(As of Tue Jun 27)

1 Chicago

2 New York City

3 Toronto

4 Colorado

5 Kansas City

6 Vancouver

7 LA

8 Montreal

9 San Jose

10 Minnesota

11 Portland

12 New York Red Bulls

13 Atlanta

14 Columbus

15 Philadelphia

16 Salt Lake

17 Houston

18 Dallas

19 Seattle

20 DC

21 Orlando

22 New England

dN

Minnesota United

A breakdown of the pros and cons of the recent performances by Johan and Kevin Venegas. The two players have been critized by many, including me, but they have provided some real positives to the team as well. By Alex Schieferdecker for Fifty Five One.

Loons make first MLS trip to New York. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Schedule:

-Thu Jun 29

New York City v Minnesota

dN

Three years of surveying American soccer fans has produced some interesting trends, generalizations and conclusions. This stuff never means much to me, but its still a snap shot of the world you and I love so much. From Ad Week.

I am sorry but I can't remember who sent this to me. I think it was someone on Twitter. I try to give credit for these things, but its lost on me today. Sorry.

dN

Trevin Caesar of Sacramento Republic named USL Player Of The Week.

David Accam of Chicago Fire named MLS Player Of The Week.

Poliana of Houston Dash named NWSL Player Of The Week.

Jon Busch of Indy Eleven named NASL Player Of The Week.

dN

US Open Cup

Round of 16 - Schedule:

-Tue Jun 27

Dallas v Colorado Rapids

-Wed Jun 28

Cincinnati v Chicago Fire - 7:00pm CT on ESPN2

Houston Dynamo v Sporting Kansas City

New England Revolution v DC United

New York Red Bulls v Philadelphia Union

Miami v Atlanta United

San Jose Earthquakes v Seattle Sounders

LA Galaxy v Sacramento Republic

-Quarterfinals game will be played between Jul 7 and 16.

dN

I meant to this ask yesterday, what do y'all think of the MLS All Star jersey? (I don't care what you think about the game. :) ) pic.twitter.com/fSwegKATMX

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) June 27, 2017

dN

MLS

San Jose takes a big gamble by firing head coach Dominic Kinnear at the mid point of the season, but they seem to be aiming for the future, so why wait. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

A MVP for every team at mid-season. By Alexander Abnos for Sports Illustrated.

dN

USMNT

A variety of veterans and newcomers, young and old make up this Gold Cup roster. The mix is important. By Brian Strauss for Sports Illustrated.

Friendly Schedule:

-Sat Jul 1

USA v Ghana - 3:45pm CT on ESPN

Pratt + Whitney Stadium - East Hartford

Group Stage Schedule:

-Sat Jul 8

USA v Panama - 3:30pm CT on FOX

Nissan Stadium - Nashville

-Wed Jul 12

USA v Martinique - 8:00pm CT on FS1

Raymond James Stadium - Tampa

-Sat Jul 15

USA v Nicaragua - 6:00pm CT on FXX

FirstEnergy Stadium - Cleveland

dN

If yer lookin for a place to watch the USMNT in the Twin Cities just head on over to the Town Hall Brewery in the Seven Corners neighborhood of Minneapolis. They have some great rooms off the main bar with big TVs, and in the very back room a projection screen. Plus the staff is great, excited to see you, and the food is top notch. My beer drinking friends tell me the suds are excellent too (they are known for their award winning beers.)

dN

Canadian Championship - Final Schedule/Results:

2nd Leg

-Tue Jun 27

Toronto v Montreal (1-1)

dN

CONFEDERATIONS CUP:

Semifinals schedule

-Wed Jun 28

Portugal v Chile - 1:00pm CT on FS1

-Thu Jun 29

Germany v Mexico - 1:00pm CT on FS2

dN

My columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
