It's Day 67 of 2017.

Batman + Superman - the MLS promo video!

dN

A thigh injury for De'Andre Yedlin could be costly to the USMNT. Could miss 2 weeks which would take him right up to the qualifiers on Mar 24 + 28. By Lee Ryder for the Newcastle Chronicle.

USMNT's CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying matches:

-Fri Mar 24

USA v Honduras - Avaya Stadium, San Jose

-Tue Mar 28

Panama v USA - Estadio Rommel Fernandez, Panama City

dN

ESPNFC conducted their annual anonymous poll of MLS players on a wide variety of subjects. Lots of questions with some good answers. Always interesting.

dN

Copa Libertadores kicked off last night with the group stage that runs through May.

Best team names in this years tournament:

Iquique

Sport Boys

Jorge Wilstermann

Universidad Catolica

The Strongest

Brazilian club Chapecoense is back in the tournament despite the fact that last November they lost nearly every member of the team and staff in a horrible plane crash. How can we not be pulling for them!?!?

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Details on the field at U of M stadium for Minnesota United games for the next 2 seasons, and a few other bits of team news. By Andy Greder for the St Paul Pioneer Press.

dN

Fullback Jerome Thiesson has his visa in hand and got on a plane last night headed to Minnesota:

????????????????????????????????????

I packed the winter jacket ???? #Minnesota #MNUFC

— Jérôme Thiesson (@j_thiesson) March 8, 2017

dN

With a few days perspective here is another look at the Minnesota loss in Portland. By Jeff Rueter for Fifty One Fifty.

dN

Skim: du Nord Music Mix Vol 115 (download + extract)

dN

I was at this show!!! The Birthday Party (live) - April 6th, 1983, First Avenue, Minneapolis [VIDEO] Really good quality.

dN

MLS

You Know It, You Love it - Ale Moreno's Weekly MLS Awards. [VIDEO] From ESPNFC.

A look behind the scenes with ESPN and FOX on their MLS TV broadcasts. By Richard Deitsch for Sports Illustrated.

Nick Rimando of Salt Lake has saved 29 penalties in MLS. 29! Think about it, 2 is standard, and 9 is pretty good. But 29?!?!?!?! Unreal.

Not surprisingly the LA Galaxy is chasing Zlatan Ibrahimovic. By Grant Wahl for Sports Illustrated.

What it would take for Sporting Kansas City to expand and create new seating at their stadium, which seems to be perpetually sold out, and why they aren't at the point where that is feasible yet. By Sam McDowell for the KC Star.

dN

USA NATIONAL TEAM

What kind of form are some of the players currently in - good or bad? By Doug McIntyre for ESPNFC.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Christian Pulisic got the start today for Dortmund in UEFA Champions League.

Oh, and he scored this goal to give them a 2-1 aggregate lead:

PULISIC! What a finish, and what a moment to get your 1st career Champions League goal! @cpulisic_10 #UCL #BVBSLB https://t.co/GADtrg7qBT

— FOX Soccer (@FOXSoccer) March 8, 2017

Matt Miazga is finally finds his footing in Europe after time on the bench at Chelsea and his current club Vitesse in Netherlands where he is on loan, and in the starting lineup. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

dN

EUROPE

UEFA Champions League - Round of 16 Matches:

Bayern was a huge winner over Arsenal, combining two 5-1 victories.

Real Madrid also coasted into the Quarterfinals.

Arsenal is left to wonder what is needed to elevate them past 3rd of 4th best in England, and last 16 in Europe. I think its time for changes.

2nd Leg

-Tue Mar 7

Arsenal 1-5 Bayern - Bay advances 10-2 on aggregate.

Napoli 1-3 Real Madrid - RM advances 6-2 on aggregate.

-Wed Mar 8

Dortmund v Benfica (0-1)

Barcelona v PSG (0-4)

The Bird Is The Word
