As the days, weeks & months tick by without Sunil Gulati naming a permanent coach for Team USA it becomes more and more clear to me that his intent has become naming Manchester United assistant Carlos Queiroz as our leader.

While Bob Bradley has done a good enough job running the ship since December, Gulati has sat still not giving Bradley the full reigns. I have seen no reason why they would wait all this time and then give BB the job now. That would have been a total waste of everyone's time.

No, Gulati has been told to wait until the Man United season was over if he wants his guy. Sir Alex Ferguson has been showing Gulati that he is bigger than US Soccer by making them wait for the man they wanted since the day Klinsi said no.

And this thought of having Queiroz in charge of our beloved team is what gives me that brutal nausea.

Queiroz may be the assistant to one of the best club teams in the world, but his experience as a head man is nothing short of atrocious.

He is praised for being the svengali behind the Portuguese golden era when guys like Rui Costa, Figo, Pauletta, Jorge Costa etc came up and won a handful of various youth titles. But when Queiroz coached them on the senior level they were very mediocre.

Go look up his season in charge of Real Madrid. There was a doozy.

How about his term in charge of the New York New Jersey Metrostars? I know everyone else failed at that job too, including Bradley, but come on.

CQ did lead South Africa through qualifying for Japan Korea 02, but was fired before the big tournament.

How about......? Aaah, forget it. There are other belly flops out there if you wanna track em down.

He is best known in this country for writing the so-called brilliant USA Project 2010 manifesto (which was loved for its boldness when it was written in 98, and dropped as crap a couple years later when people woke up from their day dreams).This crazy pipe dream was a plan for the USA to compete the World Cup in 2010. (Did you know Gulati worked on this report too, which is where their friendship is derived from?)

All in all, Queiroz's only success has been at the youth level in Portugal with some extraordinarily talented players.

And Gulati thinks this is the guy to lead the USA to the next level now! I can't even laugh at that one.

Let us all hope that my notion is wrong about this being the guy that we will see in charge in a couple of weeks, but I feel it very strongly in my gut. And that is not good.

So there you go, my hypothesis for today. It's not based on any actual facts. It may change tomorrow. It may not. But no one is talking about the giant elephant in the middle of the room, so I figured I would bring it up.
