It's Day 278 of 2016.

The donkeys have been braying for 30 hours all around Wales and England that Bob Bradley is NOT the man to lead Swansea City. They have listed every lame ass excuse you can imagine. And a couple of legit ones too. But its about 90/10 to the lame.

Someone in Wales appears to have turned a corner on Bradley, at least a little. "His experiences in [Egypt] suggest he isn't a man who is unnerved easily." By Mat Davies of the South Wales Evening Post.

dN

Best MLS goals of last week:

Jozy Altidore

Lamar Neagle 2nd

Simon Dawkins

Kevin Ellis own goal

Dax McCarty

Bradley Wright Phillips

Harrison Afful

David Villa

dN

Rumblings out of LA say Robbie Keane has refused to talk to the press for about a month now. And FWIW a month ago is when Landon Donovan returned to the team.

dN

If you are using Opiates or Heroin please ask for help. There is a lot of help out there. Do not feel ashamed or embarrassed about asking for help or being an addict. Just find help.

A Death on Staten Island. By Michael Wilson of the New York Times.

dN

Only 1 team still off to a perfect start to the season in the Big Euro Leagues:

(how many games with no losses, no ties)

8 Feyenoord

Got Beat - Man City

Got Tied - Bayern Munich

dN

USMNT upcoming friendlies:

-Fri Oct 7

Cuba v USA - Estadio Pedro Marrero, Havana - 3pm CT on ESPN2 + UniMas

-Tue Oct 11

USA v New Zealand - RFK Stadium, Washington DC - 7pm CT on on ESPN + UniMas

Here is the Roster for the Cuba game:

G: David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes, Ethan Horvath - Molde, William Yarbrough - Leon

D: Steve Birnbaum - DC United, John Brooks - Hertha Berlin, Geoff Cameron - Stoke City, Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Fabian Johnson - Moenchengladbach, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana), Michael Bradley - Toronto, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Perry Kitchen - Heart Of Midlothian, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Christian Pulisic - Dortmund, Danny Williams - Reading

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Julian Green - Bayern Munich, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes, Bobby Wood - Hamburger

dN

NASL Mid-Week 25 Schedule:

-Wed Oct 5

Tampa Bay v Minnesota

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#55 New York (4 games left)

47 Edmonton (5 games left)

*45 Indy (5 games left)

36 Minnesota (+4 GD) (5 games left)

----

36 Tampa Bay (+2 GD) (6 games left)

36 Miami (+1 GD) (5 games left)

34 Carolina (-11 GD) (5 games left)

*Won Spring Season, automatically in playoffs

#Clinch a top 4 finish and a playoff spot

The Bird Is The Word
