STARTERS

Behold the power of Sheepshead! Steven Lenhart of the Columbus Crew may have a head of hair like the back of a sheep, but his 2 goals last night to bring his team back from 0-2 down to Toluca in the CONCACAF Champions League were both works of beauty. See the power of Sheepshead build! More details in the CCL section below.

dN

Luke Cyphers of ESPN Magazine reports that Clint Dempsey is traveling with Fulham to Torino for their game against Juventus on Thursday. He will NOT play, but he is getting close. Wow.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Bayern Munich and Arsenal are the first teams to advance to the Quarterfinals. The Bayern game with Fiorentina was just fantastic viewing for 90 fulls minutes, while

And by the way, Samir Nasri's dancing-weaving-dribbling goal was a thing of art. See it here.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune reviews yesterdays two matches.

dN

Martin Samuel of the Daily Mail looks at the big day that finally arrived for Arsenal striker Niklas Bendtner after a couple years of hearing that it was right around the corner.

dN

Round of 16 2nd Leg Matches & Scores (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Tue Mar 9

Fiorentina 3-2 Bayern Munich (1-2) - BM advance on the away goals tie breaker after ending 4-4 on aggregate - Fio goals by Juan Vargas & Stevan Jovetic(2). BM goals by Mark van Bommel & Arjen Robben.

Arsenal 5-0 Porto (1-2) - Ars advance on aggregate - Ars goals by Nicklas Bendtner(3), Samir Nasri & Emmanuel Eboue.

dN

-Wed Mar 10

Manchester United v Milan (3-2) - live at 1:30pm Central on Fox Soccer Channel

Real Madrid v Lyon (0-1) - delayed at 4pm Central on Fox Soccer Channel

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Toluca got a big road draw last night 2-2 at Columbus, but they gave up a 0-2 lead to get it. Here's video of the match highlights.

dN

Jose Torres and Pachuca are in action tonight at Communicaciounes in Guatemala.

dN

Quarterfinal 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Columbus Crew 2-2 Toluca - CC goals both by Steven Sheepshead Lenhart. Tol goals by Antonio Naelson & Antonio Rios.

Match report by Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch.

-Wed Mar 10

Marathon v UNAM Pumas

Comunicaciones v Pachuca

-Thu Mar 11

Arabe Unido v Cruz Azul

In case you are wondering, Away Goals is the tiebreaker for this tournament.

USL/NSAL MESS

The drama is far from over....

This week the USL First Division announced a new team in Orlando for 2011, and the league's plan to apply as the approved 2nd division in US Soccer for next season. Basically meaning that they want USL-1 to return to power, NASL be damned. The fight is on.

dN

Trying to flesh all this out is Brian Quarstad of Inside Minnesota Soccer who talks to USL President Tim Holt.

-A new West coast addition to the USL-2, aka the 3rd division is planned for 2011.

WHY?

Yesterday in this section I lamented about the noticeable drop in MLS coverage by ESPN Soccernet, and the departure of an editor Jen Chang. So to follow up on that I spread the word about the Twittery and Max Zeger (@mcmz403) of Goal.com post that Chang has gone to work at Sport Illustrated. Could he possibly be replacing the recently departed Jonah Freedman who went to work at MLSnet? As the world turns, so are the days of our lives.

-I had also inquired on Twitter on the whereabouts of another ESPN editor Andrew Hush. Well, that answer is that he is not going anywhere. I even link to a a new article by him today.

STORY OF THE DAY

Andrew Hush of ESPN Soccernet advances the theory (that I believe) that says Landon Donovan could be a hypocrite if he chooses to stay at Everton on loan instead of returning to the Galaxy next week.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Adrian Serioux has signed with Houston after parting ways with Toronto. He will be a good backup for their defense and midfield.

dN

Gareth Wheeler at Slam Sports talks to Serioux who is not pleased with the folks at TFC.

-I don't see it as that big of a deal. Most teams in most pro sports are this way with players.

dN

Brian Jennings at Soccer 365 talks to new Colorado midfielder Jeff Larentowicz who is finally back from knee surgery and out on the field practicing.

-What is is going to be like with him and Pablo Mastroeni patrolling the center of the field. Mean and ugly is my prediction.

dN

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze looks at the two big strikers from clubs in Los Angeles that could have a huge impact on the season if they produce - Maykel Galindo of Chivas USA and Edson Buddle of the LA Galaxy.

-And a couple extra bits from Buddle that appeared on Green's blog 100 Percent Soccer.

dN

Orrin Schwartz of Chicago's Daily Herald looks at Fire GM Frank Klopas and the team's preseason so far.

dN

Sam Stejskal of Chicago Now wonders if Fire trialist Collins John is going or staying.

dN

The Dallas Morning News reports on a virtual unknown who is on the verge of earning a roster spot with FC Dallas.

dN

Jesus Ortiz of the Houston Chronicle looks at new Dynamo signing Francisco Navas Cobo who has added the Cobo to his name to honor his Granfather and Mother.

-Navas Cobo is from the teams own academy.

dN

The Kansas City Star lets Wizards 2nd year defender Matt Besler checks in from training camp.

dN

Philly Soccer News with an article on Union forward/midfielder Sebastian Le Toux.

dN

The Examiner with an article on Toronto centerback Ty Harden.

dN

Joshua Mayers of the Seattle Times checks in on the Sounders who practiced on their home field yesterday for the first time this spring, and says the injury list is getting smaller.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to originally extend it until Feb 12, and a further 13 days to Feb 25. And now that Feb 25 has come and gone with no new deal being finished, we enter the Twilight Zone.

dN

Sportsnet in Canada talks to Toronto player rep Nick Garcia, who mentions the strike word.

MLS PRESEASON GAMES

Coming Up:

-Wed Mar 10

LA Galaxy v Puntarenas (Costa Rica)

-Thu Mar 11

Houston Dynamo v Chicago Fire

dN

Pioneer Cup - to honor Lamar Hunt

-Mar 20

FC Dallas v Columbus Crew

NSC MINNESOTA STARS

We are all made of stars ..... My team has finally launched their website. I think it looks good, and can't wait for them to fill it up. The video stuff is great.

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Noah Davis of Goal.com makes the case for Alejandro Bedoya to be on the roster.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

I missed this one last week: Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated does a Q & A with Jonathan Spector.

dN

Martin Rogers of Yahoo Sports becomes the latest to decree that Landon Donovan is good enough for England.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Championship League

Jay DeMerit - Watford - Tue Mar 9 played the whole game but lost 0-1 at home to Swansea City.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - played the full 90 as they won 0-2 at Kilmarnock.

Maurice Edu - Rangers - came on as a sub in the 68th minute of a 0-2 win at Kilmarnock.

ENGLAND

The BBC reports that Portsmouth has fired 85 employees to save money, while none of their special players were touched. Yes overpriced multi-millionaires still get paid while regular old working stiffs get the boot. What a joke.

FRANCE

Gabrielle Marcotti of the Times of London talks to Emmanuel Petit who does not have nearly as many fond memories of winning the 98 World Cup as he should. What is behind that?

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Round of 16, 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 11

Hamburg v Anderlecht

Rubin Kazan v Wolfsburg

Atletico Madrid v Sporting Portugal

Lille v Liverpool

Benfica v Marseille

Panathinaikos v Standard Liege

Juventus v Fulham

Valencia v Werder Bremen

COPA LIBERTADORES

GROUP STAGE (runs through to Apr 22) - This Weeks Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Universidad Catolica 2-2 Universidad Chile - UCat goals by Matias Rubio & Francisco Silva. UChi goals by Juan Manuel Olivera & Edson Puch.

Racing Club 2-1 Cerro Porteno - Rac goals by Mathias Mirabajes & Martin Cauteruccio. CP goal by Luis Caceres.

Bolivar 0-0 Estudiantes

Cuenca 2-0 Morelia - Cue goals by Gabriel Mendez & Luis Escalada.

-Wed Mar 10

Independiente v Corinthians

Once Caldas v Monterrey

Alianza v Juan Aurich

Nacional v Banfield

Caracas v Flamengo

-Thu Mar 11

Nacional v Sao Paulo

Quito v Internacional

Italia v Cruzeiro

Emelec v Cerro

dN

Standings (6 Rounds):

Grupo 1 (1 played)

3 Corinthians (Brazil)

3 Racing Club (Uruguay) (2 played)

1 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay) (2 played)

1 Independiente Medellin (Colombia)

Grupo 2 (2 played)

6 Once Caldas (Colombia)

3 Sao Paulo (Brazil)

0 Monterrey (Mexico)

0 Nacional (Paraguay)

Grupo 3 (2 played)

6 Alianza Lima (Peru)

4 Estudiantes de la Plata (Argentina)

3 Juan Aurich (Peru)

1 Bolivar (Bolivia)

Grupo 4 (3 played)

7 Libertad (Paraguay)

7 Universitario (Peru)

3 Lanus (Argentina)

0 Blooming (Bolivia)

Grupo 5 (1 played)

3 Cerro (Uruguay)

3 Internacional (Brazil)

0 Deportivo Quito (Ecudador)

0 Emelec (Ecuador)

Grupo 6 (2 played)

6 Banfield (Argentina)

4 Club Nacional (Uruguay)

3 Cuenca (Ecudador)

1 Morelia (Mexico)

Grupo 7 (2 played)

6 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

3 Cruzeiro (Brazil)

3 Colo Colo (Chile)

0 Italia (Venezuela)

Grupo 8 (1 played)

4 Universidad Chile (Chile) (2 played)

3 Flamengo (Brazil)2

1 Universidad Catolica (Chile) (2 played)

0 Caracas FC (Venezuela)

ENDERS

This is one of the most pissed off songs I have ever heard, and I love it: Nirvana - Negative Creep
