STARTERS

The reason given for Portland having fake turf in their new stadium is that they will be sharing the place with Portland State Universities football team. So much for soccer specific or the Timbers being the primary tenant.

MLS

Frank Dell'apa on his blog Soccer Confidential tells us about the great coaching success happening right now for 2 former New England Revolution favorites - Leonel Alvarez and Mauricio Wright. Alvarez led his team to the Colombian championship, and Wright's team is in the final!

dN

Seattle is going to spend part of their pre-season in Spain participating in the La Manga Cup. Several other MLS have done this before. The Sounders will be in one group with Nordsjaelland (Denmark), Rosenborg (Norway) & Stabaek (Norway). The other group will contain Brann (Norway), Krylia Sovetov (Russia), Midtjylland (Denmark) and Molde (Norway).

dN

Mark Young at MLSnet gives us a round up on many former MLSer's.

dN

Jack Bell of the New York Times shows us what Red Bulls midfielder Seth Stammler is doing this offseason - helping out the less advantaged people of Haiti.

The LA Galaxy has signed 3 young Brazilians from the legendary Sao Paulo club on loan for next season - Alex (21, left midlfield), Juninho (20, center midfield) & Leonardo (21 centerback).

-I know it's kind of ridiculous that all 3 have the names of other popular recent or current players.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

Kelowna with a report that MLS/SUM has filed a lawsuit against Black & Decker for infringing on their turf in the MLS/SUM/Makita-Powertools marketplace. (Scroll down to the middle of the articles) It's interesting to note that SUM has enough money to pursue things like this. (Thanks to JJ for the heads up.)

MLS GENERATION ADIDAS 2010

Every year the league offers special developmental deals to players who have not finished college, but have high potential.

3 more signings announced today:

-Zach Loyd - North Carolina

-Toni Stahl - Connecticut

-Andre Akpan - Harvard

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

Andrew Hush of ESPN Soccernet gives us his thoughts on the negotiations for a new deal.

dN

The current deal expires on Dec 31, 2009. If no deal is in place by then the players could strike or the owners could lock them out.

MLS COACHES MERRY-GO-ROUND

The Oregonian tells us about the Portland Timbers search for a coach when they rise to MLS. The one guy being talked about right now is John Spencer. (Yes, the Blues Xplosion guy.)

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

The Oregonian with more on the redesign of PGE Park in Portland. (thanks to Brian for this one)

dN

The Vancouver Province gives us a look at where the Vancouver Whitecaps will play their first MLS games until their permanent home at BC Place is built. They will share it with a CFL team. Includes some rough images.

-Here is the team's official press release on the subject.

dN

Glenn Davis writing on the Fox Sports Houston website tells us again why the Dynamo need their own stadium.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Freddu Adu's reaction on Twitter to his coach getting the boot: "For those who dont know my coach at Belenenses just got fired so my decision making just got a lil bit tricky."

-What decision is that?

dN

Again I have to ask - Is it time for Carlos Bocanegra to hit the panic button at Rennes? He has now not played in 3 straight games after sitting out 1 with a suspension. What is going on? They lost today 2-0 at Sochaux.

dN

Landon Donovan's first potential games for EVerton:

-Sat Jan 2 v Carlisle United - FA Cup 3rd Round

-Sat Jan 9 at Arsenal

-Sat Jan 16 v Manchester City

-Sat Jan 23 potential FA Cup 4th Round

-Wed Jan 27 v Sunderland

-Sat Jan 30 at Wigan

dN

Mark Young at MLSnet gets us caught up with Marcus Hahnemann.

dN

Yanks Abroad talks to a teamless Ian Joy about what's next for him. MLS again perhaps?

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

NETHERLANDS - Dutch Cup Round of 16

Charles Kazlauskus - Helmond Sport - lost 3-0 at Twente Enschede and are out of the tournament.

CENTRAL AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN

COSTA RICA - Primera Division Torneo de Invierno - Final:

1st leg

-Wed Dec 23

Puntarenas v Brujas

2nd leg

-Mon Dec 28

Brujas v Puntarenas

ENGLAND

Guillem Balague of the Times wonders if this January is the time we will see Spanish striker David Villa move to a Premiership team.

dN

The Sun newspaper is putting out a scandalous story that they have confirmed that an unnamed Premier League manager has been a regular visitor to a brothel. That outta get ugly. Via The Times.

dN

The Independent previews the giant swath of Premier League matches that will happen over the next 11 days.

SPAIN

Spain has given national team head coach Vicente del Bosque a new contract that goes through Euro 2012.

FRANCE

Top Team Standings (after 19 of 38 rounds) - And this weeks Matches & Scores:

43 Bordeaux - Last: Wed Dec 23 - W 1-2 at Toulouse

34 Lille - Last: Wed Dec 23 - W 0-4 at Nancy Lorraine

33 Montpellier - Last: Wed Dec 23 - W 1-2 at Lyon

32 Marseille - Last: Wed Dec 23 - L 0-2 v Auxerre

32 Auxerre - Last: Wed Dec 23 - W 0-2 at Marseille

30 Lyon - Last: Wed Dec 23 - L 1-2 v Montpellier

dN

The next round begins on Wed Jan 13.

ARGENTINA

Marcela Mora y Aurajo of the Guardian says that Lionel Messi can definitely be a better player than Diego Maradona was.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian looks into his book of logic & magic to try and see what tactics lie ahead in the future for football.

When Saturday Comes points out potential flaws in video technology.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune writes that even though the recession has hit most people globally, the rich in the world of soccer appear to be getting richer.

ENDERS

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune also tells us what we all know - 2009 was the year of Barcelona.
