Starters

I am on Twitter: dunord

Are you?

UEFA Champions League

Semifinals

First Leg Matches:

-Tue Apr 28

Barcelona 0-0 Chelsea - A real dullards delight.

-Wed Apr 29

Manchester United 1-0 Arsenal - MU goal by John O'Shea, the least talented guy on the field gets it done!

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune on the goal scoring hero and his winning team.

Second Leg Matches (with First Leg scores included):

-Tue May 5

Arsenal v Manchester United (0-1)

-Wed May 6

Chelsea v Barcelona (0-0)

US Open Cup

MLS team 1st qualifying round:

-Wed Apr 29

San Jose Earthquakes 1-2 Red Bull New York - SJE goal by Pablo Campos. RBNY goals by Mike Petke & John Wolyniec

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium, Santa Clara CA

In the 2nd & final qualifying round New York will face DC United, date and location TBD by a coin flip (aka RFK Stadium).

MLS

International Friendly Match:

-Wed Apr 29

Chicago Fire 1-2 Club America (Mexico) - CF goal by Chris Rolfe. CA goals by Juan Carlos Silva & Pavel Pardo.

Venue: Toyota Park, Bridgeview IL

Match report by Luis Arroyave of the Chicago Tribune. Fire third string keeper Andrew Dykstra stopped a PK!

-A return match will be played at Estadio Azteca in Mexico City later this year.

dN

Sons of Ben tip us off to the fact that Philadelphia will announce the name of their new team on May 11.

dN

Andrew Hush at ESPN Soccernet gives us his thoughts on last week and looks ahead to this weekend in MLS.

dN

MLS Week 7 Matches

-Sat May 2

Toronto v Columbus - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: BMO Field, Toronto ON

DC v Dallas - 6:30pm Central on FSC

Venue: RFK Stadium, Washington DC

Chicago v Seattle - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Toyota Park, Bridgeview IL

Colorado v Salt Lake - 8:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park, Commerce City CO

San Jose v Chivas - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium, Santa Clara CA

Los Angeles v New York - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

-Sun May 3

New England v Houston - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Gillette Stadium, Foxborough MA

Kansas City is on the bye week.

USL

BQ at Inside Minnesota Soccer sits down with Thunder coach Don Gramenz as the home season gets set to kick off! I better see all you Twin Citians on Saturaday night - bleecher tickets are only $5 and the new beer garden is pitchside - you have no excuse! Download or listen to the interview here.

dN

-Sat May 2

Minnesota Thunder v Vancouver Whitecaps - 7pm Central at the National Sports Center in Blaine

-Again, there are new $5 bleacher seats this season, $20 season passes for youth, and a brand new pitch-side beer garden!

England

The National of UAE interviews a Tottenham team executive about the impact manager Harry Redknapp has had on the team this season.

Europe

Sports Features with an article on Franck Ribery and the chances that he will stay at Bayern Munich after coach Juergen Klinsmann has been fired.

dN

The National of UAE tells the story of a tragic team from 1949 - Il Grande Torino were the most popular team in Italy who died in a plane crash.

dN

Other Cup competitions around Europe:

UEFA Cup Semifinals

First Leg Matches:

-Thu Apr 30

Dynamo Kyiv 1-1 Shakhtar Donetsk - DK goal by Dmytro Chygrynskiy(OG). SD goal by Fernandinho.

Werder Bremen 0-1 Hamburg - Ham goal by Piotr Trochowski.

-Second leg matches on May 7

-Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian writes about the battle between Ukraine's Big Two.

Puchar Polski Semifinals

1st Leg

-Wed Apr 29

Legia Warszawa 0-1 Ruch Chorzow

-Thu Apr 30

Lech Poznan 1-1 Polonia Warszawa

2nd Leg (1st Leg scores included)

-Wed May 6

Polonia Warszawa v Lech Poznan (1-1)

-Thu May 7

Ruch Chorzow v Legia Warszawa (1-0)

South America

Tom Phillips of the Guardian with an article on my favorite player of all time Ronaldo, and his great comeback down at Corinthians. Some really good stuff here.
