USA 0-1 Costa Rica

Just one word is needed to describe the game: Gruesome.

dN

How in the world has Minnesota United gotten better since they sold their best player Miguel Ibarra? Bill MK of Northern Pitch tries to figure that one out.

Great video clip from local NBC affiliate KARE 11 and a couple Minnesota United players!

dN

Fans can have a say in voting for NASL 2015 season awards:

-VOTE | 2015 NASL GOLDEN BALL (Player of the Year)

-VOTE | 2015 NASL COACH OF THE YEAR

-VOTE | 2015 NASL YOUNG PLAYER OF THE YEAR

Christian Ramirez of Minnesota and Tom Heinemann of Ottawa are NOT nominees for Player Of The Year?!?! Are you kidding me? There are like 30 nominees, and no room for these two? Farcical.

dN

Bingo! Bango! Bongo! Wales has qualified for next summer's European Championship. The first time that country has been in a Euro or World Cup in 75 years! Rob Hughes of the New York Times tells us the story.

On the flip side - Netherlands are OUT! And it was a Robin Van Persie own goal that doomed them. Oranje-debacle.

Check out this graphic from Sky Sports about what happens to teams that finish 3rd in the World Cup. Now this is a conspiracy theory I can get behind.

The draw for the Euro 2016 playoffs will happen on Sunday. 4 teams will qualify from the home & away series being played in November.

-Pot A: Bosnia & Herzegovina, Hungary, Sweden, Ukraine

-Pot B: Denmark, Ireland, Norway, Slovenia

dN

Let the stats tell the story of the Premier League through 8 rounds. From the Guardian.

dN

What's it like for soccer in Syria these days. Despite being nomads, the national team says, "Civil war be damned." From Al Jazeera.

-And what soccer it like in Yemen these days?

dN

Most MLS teams have 2 games left to play, while a few still have 3. Before we even get to Saturday there are 5 games on the docket and all of them have playoff implications:

-Wed Oct 14

Toronto v New York Red Bulls

Dallas v Vancouver Whitecaps

Real Salt Lake v Portland Timbers

-Fri Oct 16

Orlando City v New York City

San Jose Earthquakes v Sporting Kansas City

The Bird Is The Word
