It's Day 179 of 2017.

Earlier today I post du Nord Futbol's MNUFC mid-season grades, and a few mid-season awards.

dN

Six people from the police services have been charged with crimes in connection to the 1989 disaster at the Hillsborough stadium in England that left 96 dead, mostly Liverpool supporters. By David Conn for the Guardian.

dN

Minnesota United

Big news - Brent Kallman out of Thursday's game with a knee injury, suffered against Vancouver:

#MNUFC injury report: Brent Kallman (knee), Joe Greenspan (concussion) out Thursday. Look for Jermaine Taylor-Francisco Calvo at center back

— Andy Greder (@andygreder) June 28, 2017

Abu Danladi also out with a thigh injury.

The story is out, although the team has yet to confirm, that MNUFC has signed 22 year old Scottish midfielder Sam Nicholson from Hearts. By Jeff Rueter for ESPNFC.

He will be available to play when the summer transfer window opens on July 10.

Schedule:

-Thu Jun 29

New York City v Minnesota - 6:30pm CT on My29

-Tue Jul 4

Minnesota v Columbus - 6:00pm CT on My29

dN

US Open Cup - Round of 16

Dallas advanced to the Quarterfinals for an incredible 16th time.

Some really good looking games coming up tonight, including 1 showing on ESPN.

Schedule/Results:

-Tue Jun 27

Dallas 3-1 Colorado Rapids

-Wed Jun 28

Cincinnati v Chicago Fire - 7:00pm CT on ESPN

Houston Dynamo v Sporting Kansas City

New England Revolution v DC United

New York Red Bulls v Philadelphia Union

Miami v Atlanta United

San Jose Earthquakes v Seattle Sounders

LA Galaxy v Sacramento Republic

-Quarterfinals game will be played between Jul 7 and 16.

dN

Sauce: du Nord Music Mix Vol 128 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

An explanation from the San Jose Earthquakes bossman for the firing of head coach Dom Kinnear. By Robert Jonas for Center Line Soccer.

DC United has a plan to make their presence felt in a much bigger way in the nations capitol. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

A look at the philosophy behind the successful Dallas academy system. By Noah Davis for B/R.

Atlanta United has bumped Seattle from the top of the average attendance standings! 46,698 per game so far. By JuliaKate Culpepper for the Atlanta Journal Constitution.

Week 18 schedule/results:

(10 Games)

Thu Jun 29

New York City v Minnesota

-Fri Jun 30

Salt Lake v Orlando

-Sat Jul 1

Chicago v Vancouver

Dallas v Toronto

Kansas City v Portland

Montreal v DC

Columbus v Atlanta

Colorado v Houston

San Jose v LA

-Sun Jul 2

Philadelphia v New England

dN

I meant to this ask yesterday, what do y'all think of the MLS All Star jersey? (I don't care what you think about the game. :) ) pic.twitter.com/fSwegKATMX

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) June 27, 2017

dN

USMNT

Eight years ago at the Confederations Cup in South Africa Bob Bradley coached the USA to a monumental upset of World Cup holders Spain. It was a coaching master class. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

dN

Canadian Championship - Final Schedule/Results:

Drama, excitement, anger, controversy. It was all there!

Tied from Leg 1, Montreal took the lead on a great goal by Ballou Tabla in the 36th minute. Who else but Sebastian Giovinco retaliated for Tornto. So with the game still tied late in the 2nd Leg it was Giovinco again 5 minutes into stoppage time that ended the series with a very dramatic winner.

Match report. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

Match report. By Stu Cowan for the Montreal Gazette.

Results:

2nd Leg

-Tue Jun 27

Toronto 2-1 Montreal - Tor wins championship 3-2 on aggregate.

dN

CONFEDERATIONS CUP - Semifinals:

Two great match ups in the Semis:

Today - Euro Champ v S Amer Champ

Tomorrow - N Amer Champ v World Cup Champ

I have never seen a goalkeeper save all 3 shots he faced in a shootout after extra time ends tied. Claudio Bravo did it for Chile today. On to the Final.

Schedule/Results:

-Wed Jun 28

Portugal 0-0 Chile - Chi adv 3-0 in Shots From The Mark.

-Thu Jun 29

Germany v Mexico - 1:00pm CT on FS2

FINAL schedule

-Sun Jul 2

Chile v ??? - 12:pm CT on FS1

dN

My columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
