MLS Cup Playoffs

Final

Sun Dec 6

Columbus Crew v Portland Timbers - 3pm CT on ESPN

-Current weather forecast for Sunday kickoff: High 50F. 0% chance of precip. Intervals of clouds and sunshine. Winds light and variable.

-See you there!

Who will win? Analysis by Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

-Just don't watch the video from the top of the page where 4 people who really don't care much about the game give their "thoughts."

A match preview. By Graham Parker of the Guardian.

Ah, an article on my nemesis from the Portland Timbers GM Gavin Wilkinson. (Photo suggests his mom still cuts his hair in the basement.) By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

How did Columbus build this strong team? By Liviu Bird of Sports Illustrated.

dN

Game of Thrones anyone? Trailer for Season 6.

dN

Liga MX Liguilla Apertura:

Big big big win for Pumas on the road, and a pretty decent result for Toluca too.

Classic stuff! Pumas scores, America has a melt down - red card, Pumas scores again & again! Its now 0-3 in the 80th.

— Ser Brvcio McGvire (@dunord) December 4, 2015

Semifinals

-Thu Dec 3

America(6) 0-3 Pumas(1)

Tigres(5) 0-0 Toluca(2)

-Sun Dec 6

Pumas(1) v America(6)

Toluca(2) v Tigres(5)

-F: Dec 10 + 13

-All rounds are 2 Legs.

-In all proceeding rounds the highest seed left plays the lowest etc.

-In Quarter +Semifinals away goals break ties, no extra time is played, and if still tied they higher seed advances.

-In Final away goals DO NOT break ties, and the game can go to Extra Added Time and a Penalty Kick Shootout if tied.

dN

Real Madrid has been kicked out of the Copa Del Rey after fielding an ineligible player in their game on Wednesday. From Marca.

dN

The Argentina Football Association (AFA) held its presidential election on Thursday, its first election in 36 years. So the 75 federation members stepped up to cast their vote. But something odd happened. The vote ended in a tie 38-38. 1 extra vote. Ah Argentina! Story from Reuters.

dN

Here is a list of the 16 new defendants in the US Department Of Justice FIFA investigation, and a list of the 8 who recently plead guilty to previous charges. From World Football Insider.

-USDOJ has traced corruption through at least 40 countries so far.

dN

One guy with a twitter account can do a lot of damage to politicians and an organization like the NRA in one evening. From the Observer.

The Bird Is The Word
