BREAKING NEWS

Bob Bradley has signed a new 4 year contract to remain head coach of the USA.

-I will say that I am disappointed. Not that I don't like Bradley, because I like him a lot. I just wanted to see some new energy and fresh air brought into the team.

There was a lot of Klinsy bluster over the weekend, but this is exactly what I thought would happen.

STARTERS

DaMarcus Beasley has signed with Hannover in Germany, joining fellow American Steve Cherundolo. Hope its a great fit for our main man Run DMB! He will wear #16.

TEAM USA

Another friendly officially on the schedule now, with Colombia traveling to PPL Park in Chester PA to face our team on Tue Oct 12. More details below in the right hand column.

BOB BRADLEY WATCH

I just want to make sure that Aston Villa knows that I, Bruce McGuire, am still available to fill their head coaches position.

-And I have heard through channels that Fidel Castro, although an alleged baseballing savant, is also interested in the job.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Round Three of the Group Stage will be played Sep 14-16.

STORY OF THE DAY

Kaboom! Tripp Mickle of Street & Smoth's Sports Business Journal reports that Adidas has renewed their big sponsorship deal with MLS, upping their annual payout from US$15 million to US$25 million and extending the contract through 2018.

-One of the keys to this deal is money for player development, which makes you wonder if this is where the bucks will come from to provide a real reserve league.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"So what in the name of Ruud Gullit has gone wrong?"

-Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated wondering how the Los Angeles Galaxy has fallen into this terrible slump.

FACT OF THE DAY

The FIFA scouts will be in the USA next week on the 6th, 7th & 8th of Sep to see some of the potential World Cup sites. The bidding season is very intense right now.

COMING UP IN MID-WEEK

On Wednesday we will see one US Open Cup semifinal and the SuperLiga final!

dN

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe sees SuperLiga as a chance for New England to highlight a pretty poor season.

dN

Scott French of the LA Daily News wonders if Chivas's decision to go all out for the win in the league this past weekend will harm their chances to play their best in the Open Cup semifinal.

TWEETYVERSE

@DaMarcusBeasley:

-Finally here.. Jus landed in HANNOVER, germany.. Its been a long day/night.. Goin to the hotel, get some rest and food.. Big day tmrw!!

-I have officially signed for Hannover96.. Very excited w/ this adventure and to start playin! Thanks for all continued support my friends!!

WHY?

With huge games the horizon every week in MLS the teams will get hit hard this coming weekend by international play. In the RSL v NYRB game, no less than 6 starters will be missing. A true shame. Maybe the ticket prices should be reduced too then.

MLS WEEK 22

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 28

Columbus Crew 0-0 FC Dallas

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 16,708

Toronto FC 0-0 Real Salt Lake

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Attendance: 21,047

New York Red Bulls 2-0 San Jose Earthquakes - NYRB goals by Dane Richards & Thierry Henry.

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

Attendance: 21,859

New England Revolution 1-2 Philadelphia Union - NER goal by Ilja Stolica. PU goals by Jack McInerny & Justin Mapp.

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Attendance: 13,578

Colorado Rapids 3-0 Houston Dynamo - CR goals by Jamie Smith, Omar Cummings & Conor Casey.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Attendance: 11,511

Seattle Sounders FC 2-1 Chicago Fire SC - SS goals both by Freddy Montero. CF goal by John Thorrington(PK).

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 36,386

Los Angeles Galaxy 0-2 Kansas City Wizards - KCW goals by Davy Arnaud & Jimmy Conrad.

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 20,112

-Sun Aug 29

CD Chivas USA 1-0 DC United - CU goals by Justin Braun.

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 12,517

dN

EJECTIONS:

-Lovel Palmer - Houston - Red Card

-Cory Gibbs - New England - Red Card

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Seattle forward Freddy Montero has been named Player Of The Week.

dN

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated reviews the league with Five things to take away from Week 22.

dN

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with is Monday Breakdown of the weekends games - what has happened to LA, and other points of interest.

dN

We have come a long way in this league Thierry Henry scores his first goal for Red Bull, and its not the big story of the day. As a matter of fact, its just another goal. Massive!

dN

Charles Gooch of the Kansas City Star ponders the Wizards hopes of making the playoffs.

dN

Chris Young of the Toronto Star has seen this TFC team a few too many years in a row now.

dN

The Columbus Dispatch with a look back at the Crews' visit from Dallas.

-Emilio Renteria has become the man to watch in Columbus for me over the past month. He takes the place of Eddie Gaven as top Crewer for me.

dN

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com thinks that Union coach Peter Nowak's idea to attack on the road was a gamble that paid off. And other Union notes.

-Don't you wish every MLS coach thought like Nowak.

MLS PLAYER MOVEMENT

KC will announce the signing of a player from their youth academy on Tuesday. This will be their first.

IF MLS HAD SINGLE TABLE STANDINGS

POINTS - TEAM - GAMES PLAYED

43 Los Angeles - 22

41 Columbus - 22

40 Salt Lake - 22

37 Dallas - 21

37 New York - 22

32 Seattle - 22

31 Colorado - 21

29 San Jose - 20

27 Toronto - 21

26 Kansas City - 21

24 Chicago - 19

23 Houston - 22

22 Chivas - 21

21 New England - 21

20 Philadelphia - 21

15 DC - 22

DU NORD PLAYER OF THE WEEK AND OTHER STUFF

Easily Dane Richards of New York. Not long ago this guy was a scourge. The second coming of Frankie Hejduk. Tons of speed, all day energy, and the crossing ability of an angry atheist. Frankie had more shanks, but that was only because he was around much longer. BUT.... Dane was insane for the Red Bulls. His first goal on Saturday was a thing of sheer beauty, poise and maturity beyond what anyone thought he was capable. They he set up Thierry Henry for his first ever MLS goal. And they won on top of it all. Richards is a main cog in the teams charge toward a strong finish and high hopes for the playoffs.

-See that tasty goal here.

MY THOUGHTS

Yes Dallas has not lost in the past 10 road games, but they have only won 3 of those. On the other hand, Salt Lake should last season that you don't have to know how to win on the road to win MLS Cup.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

Average attendance this past weekend was 19,215.

dN

Did you know that AEG owns a team in Sweden too? Yes Hammarby. And they just got the city of Stockholm to pay for a new stadium and training facility to the tune of US$340 million. Yup.

MLS EXPANSION

Geoffrey Arnold of the Oregonian looks at the current Portland Timbers roster and tries to figure out who might make their MLS roster next season.

-I would say he has it just about dead on.

USSF DIVISION 2

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Aug 27

Montreal Impact 2-0 Rochester Rhinos

-Sat Aug 28

Carolina RailHawks 2-3 Puerto Rico Islanders

-Sun Aug 29

Vancouver Whitecaps 2-2 Austin Aztex

Tampa Bay Rowdies 2-2 AC St Louis

Portland Timbers 3-0 Crystal Palace Baltimore

dN

Standings (As of Sun Aug 29):

48 Rochester - 26 played

46 Austin - 23 played

40 Vancouver - 25 played

38 Portland - 25 played

34 Carolina - 24 played

32 Puerto Rico - 23 played

31 Montreal - 25 played

28 Minnesota - 25 played

28 Tampa Bay - 25 played

24 Baltimore - 25 played

23 St Louis - 24 played

20 Miami - 24 played

dN

Pro-Rated Standings based on Points Per Game:

2.00 Austin

1.85 Rochester

1.60 Vancouver

1.52 Portland

1.42 Carolina

1.39 Puerto Rico

1.24 Montreal

1.12 Tampa Bay

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

OUT OF PLAY OFF SPOTS

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

1.12 Minnesota

0.96 Baltimore

0.96 St Louis

0.83 Miami

USL-2 NEWS

A couple of former long time D2 stalwarts Charleston Battery and Richmond Kickers faced off in the USL-2 championship game on Saturday with Charleston winning 2-1. Huge congrats to them.

USA U20 TEAM

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to fullback Korey Veeder, who will be with the team next week in a tournament in Peru.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Hannover has official word on the signing of DaMarucs Beasley.

dN

Noah Davis of The USA 10 Kit looks into why Benny Feilhaber has not found a new team yet.

dN

Mikkel Diskerud got the game winner for Stabaek this weekend.

dN

Rico Clark, Michael Parkhurst and Sacha Kljestan didn't dress for their teams this weekend.

dN

Turns out that 3 Americans are in the UEFA Champions League groups stage, not 2. Besides Oguchi Onyewu & Jermaine Jones we have:

-Maurice Edu & Rangers, who will face Manchester United, Valencia & Bursaspor.

dN

17 year old goalkeeper Cody Cropper has signed with Ipswich Town in England.

-Brian Quarstad of Inside Minnesota Soccer has been following Cropper for a few years now, and has the details.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to young Bobby Wood at 1860 Munchen.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - came on as a sub in the 59th minute of a 2-2 draw at Blackpool.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance and got a 1-0 home win over Everton.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - played the whole thing as they drew 1-1 at home with Newcastle United.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - started and went 78 minutes as they drew 2-2 at home against Birmingham City.

Tim Howard - Everton - played the whole 90 but lost 1-0 at Aston Villa.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - suffered through a full 90 losing 3-0 at Manchester United.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Conor Doyle - Derby County - started and went 57 minutes of a 2-2 home tie with Queens Park Rangers.

ENGLAND - League One

Anton Peterlin - Plymouth Argyle - came on as a sub in the 76th minute but lost 0-3 at home to Peterborough United.

FINLAND - Veikkausliiga

Greg Eckhardt - VPS - went the full 90 but lost 1-3 at home to Honka.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - went the distance as they beat Lens 3-1 at home.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the full 90 winning big 3-6 at Bayer Leverkusen.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the distance winning 1-2 at Schalke.

Jermaine Jones - Schalke - started and scored his teams goal, but was subbed out in the 90th minute as they lost at home 1-2 to Hannover.

Daniel Williams - Freiburg - came on as a sub in second half stoppage time as they won 1-2 at Nurnberg.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

David Yelldell - Duisburg - went the full 90 and got a 4-1 home win over Ingolstadt.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - went the full 90 and scored the winning goal as they beat Lillestrom 2-1 at home.

Hunter Freeman - Start - played the entire game but lost at home 2-3 to Rosenborg.

Clarence Goodson - Start - went the distance losing 2-3 at home to Rosenborg.

Di Vita Jensen - Honefoss - got the start, scored the first goal and played 79 minutes of a 1-3 road win at Aalesund.

RUSSIA - Premier Division

Yevgeni Starikov - FC Tom Tomsk - came on as a sub in the 87th minute and they won 1-0 at home over Dinamo Moskva.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Maurice Edu - Rangers - came on as a sub in the 83rd minute to help preserve a 2-1 home win over St Johnstone.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - went the full match in a big 3-0 home win over Helsingborg.

Ryan Miller - Halmstad - played the whole game, getting a yellow card, and they won at home 2-1 against Kalmar.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE - RUMORS

Eddie Johnson to QPR? (thanks to Jimmy for the rumor info)

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Game Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - San Luis - came on as a sub in the 77th minute and they won at home 2-1 over Atlante.

Herculez Gomez - Pachuca - came on as a sub in the 80th minute as they lost 3-1 at Puebla.

Sammy Ochoa - Estudiantes Tecos - started and went 77 minutes of a home 1-1 tied with Morelia.

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - went the distance in a scoreless home draw with UNAM Pumas.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - went the full 90, getting a yellow card, and losing 3-1 at Puebla.

ENGLAND

Things went according to plan this weekend, except for the big big win by Sunderland beating big spending Man City.

-Stoke and West Ham still have 0 points after 3 rounds,

dN

Tom Lutz of the Guardian with 5 things we learned from watching Premier League football this weekend.

SPAIN

One big blunder to start the season and that was Real Madrid and their Billion Dollar Team crashing to a scoreless draw at Mallorca. Then the other big teams rolled, and all impressively on the road - Sevilla, Valencia, Barca, and while Atletico and Espanyol won easily at home.

dN

Phil Ball of Soccernet reviews the first week of La Liga Nuevo.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Barca bringing in the striker they always wanted (David Villa) and ditching the mistake (Zlatan Ibrahimovic), but it cost them a lot of money, and the rest of the opening weekend of La Liga.

dN

Opening Weekend of the Spanish Primera Liga

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 28

Hercules 0-1 Athletic Bilbao

Malaga 1-3 Valencia

Levante 1-4 Sevilla

-Sun Aug 29

Deportivo La Coruna 0-0 Real Zaragoza

Espanyol 3-1 Getafe

Mallorca 0-0 Real Madrid

Osasuna 0-0 Almeria

Racing Santander 0-3 Barcelona

Real Sociedad 1-0 Villarreal

-Mon Aug 30

Atletico Madrid 4-0 Sporting Gijon

FRANCE

3 big teams are still really struggling to get their seasons going as Lyon, Bordeaux and Marseille all have just 4 points after 4 games. Lyon lost this round, while Bordeaux & Mars tied each other.

-Toulouse is off to a perfect start with 12 from 4.

dN

Tom Williams of Football Further with a splendid review of the past week in Ligue 1.

dN

Ben Lyttleton of Sports Illustrated looks ahead to the national team launching into Euro Championship qualifying this coming weekend.

GERMANY

Bayern bombed out in round 2 with a road loss to the Kaisers.

-Bremen, Hamburg, Gladbach & Dortmund all won big.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on Wolfsburg's gigantic choke job and the rest of the Bundesliga weekend.

ITALY

Some real drama to open the season as Milan won big, Parma and Samp got off to a good start, while Roma bumbled to a home draw with newly promoted Cesena, Inter bumbled to a road draw at Bologna, and Juve lost at Bari - Oof - not a good start at all for a team that spent a lot of money. But its really how you finish the season, not start it.

dN

Paolo Banidini of the Guardian on the opening weekends carrying-ons of Serie A.

dN

Opening Weekend of the Italian Serie A

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 28

Udinese 0-1 Genoa

Roma 0-0 Cesena

-Sun Aug 29

Bari 1-0 Juventus

Milan 4-0 Lecce

Chievo 2-1 Catania

Fiorentina 1-1 Napoli

Palermo 0-0 Cagliari

Parma 2-0 Brescia

Sampdoria 2-0 Lazio

-Mon Aug 30

Bologna 0-0 Inter

UEFA

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Dutch head coach Bert van Marwijk as the leads his team toward possible European glory in 2012.

-Any chance he will let all those skilled players do more than just kick people?

BRAZIL

Brasilairo Round 17 Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 28

Internacional 1-0 Botafogo

Vasco 1-1 Cruzeiro

Ceara 2-2 Prudente

Santos 2-0 Goias

-Sun Aug 29

Corinthians 2-1 Vitoria

Guarani 2-1 Flamengo

Atlectico MG 1-2 Palmeiras

Fluminense 2-2 Sao Paulo

Atletico GO 2-2 Avai

Atlectico PR 1-1 Gremio

BIDDING TO HOST WORLD CUP 2018 & 2022

Martin Samuel of the Daily Mail on the disgusting racism of Russian football.

-Why he has to bring England's World Cup bid into this article I don't know. Let the ugliness stand on its own.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated with notes from the weekend of fussball aktion.

ENDERS

DaMarcus Beasley is welcomed to Germany by the worlds biggest secondhand Hairbo Gummi Bear collector - Jonas Clerzen.
