It's Day 181 of 2017.

Minnesota United's inability to win on the road goes back much further than this season. Last time they won any game on the road was Jun 1, 2016 in the US Open Cup at St Louis FC. Before that in NASL play it was Apr 10, 2016 at Edmonton. In 2015 they were just fine on the road. So what happened to this organization 14 months ago to change all this? Anything? Maybe nothing but the way the wind blows.

dN

After seeing 14 of the 22 MLS teams play this season I will say that New York City is the best attacking team (Atlanta #2) and Sporting Kansas City is the best defensive team (San Jose #2.)

dN

Liga MX Apertura kicks off on Jul 21

dN

Minnesota United

My MNUFC Notes:

Game Highlights [VIDEO]

Let me start by saying NYC is the best team I have seen this season.

Another rough night for the Loons. And again on the road. Outside of the ties at Colorado and Houston they have been pretty pitiful on the road. Its hard to watch at times.

And another goal for Ramirez. That's 10 this season.

On the goal Ibson fed JVenegas down the middle and JV cranked off a hard long range shot. NYC keeper Erik Johanen had a good bead on the ball but he bobbled it and Ramirez was the only one there to scoop it up and blast it over the prone keeper in to the net. Well done all around.

1-1 at half time.

But again it was the 2nd half of the game that undid the Loons.

Cronin appeared to separate his shoulder in the 2nd half, but the doctor popped it back in to place and Cronin played on. Damn. I bet he needed Ibuprofen to get to sleep last night.

They should have subbed Cronin off immediately.

Minn made 1 sub, bringing on Jome for Ibarra in the 73rd.

I must keep asking, "What did Kadrii due or not due that keeps him glued to the bench?"

Lets say this: David Villa is incredible! But you can't let him beat 5 Minn players and the keeper while starting from the sideline all the way to goal and score. That was absurd.

Only after NYC got their 3rd goal and dropped off to secure the win did Minn get any real possession and apply pressure going forward.

Many of the Minn players put in good effort, but they simply were not good enough to compete. Too slow and a lot less desire to "want that ball."

It really seemed like NYC won every single 50/50 ball.

Taylor had a solid game. And made some big plays.

Here was my only tweet during the game:

We put on Jome. They put on Pirlo.

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) June 30, 2017

There were a few moments of great interplay but again it ended at the top of the box.

And I am sure there were other good aspects of the game for Minn but I can't remember another one today.

That first away win for Minn still seems a long ways away.

Media:

Match report. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Report on Cronin's shoulder injury. By Ryan.

A few other post game notes. By Ryan.

Match report. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Kallman's knee injury. By Greder.

Schedule/Results:

-Thu Jun 29

New York City 3-1 Minnesota

-Tue Jul 4

Minnesota v Columbus - 6:00pm CT on My29

Centerback Conundrum:

If Kallman remains out for next Tuesday then who plays centerback?

Calvo will be gone with Costa Rica (along with JVenegas.)

There is talk that Taylor could be gone with Jamaica.

Greenspan is out with a concussion.

That's it on the roster, they only have 4 centerbacks

.

A long article on the soccer life of Christian Ramirez. By Ives Galarcep for Goal.

dN

Sauce: du Nord Music Mix Vol 128 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

The story of the fall of Real Salt Lake. From Dell Loy Hansen to Jason Kries to Garth Lagerway to Bill Manning and all the way to Jeff Cassar. By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

There is a group of 6 teams at the bottom of the heap in MLS and they are all hard to tell apart game to game: Colorado, DC, Minnesota, Montreal, Philadelphia and Salt Lake.

Week 18 schedule/results:

(10 Games)

Thu Jun 29

New York City 3-1 Minnesota

-Fri Jun 30

Salt Lake v Orlando

-Sat Jul 1

Chicago v Vancouver

Dallas v Toronto

Kansas City v Portland

Montreal v DC

Columbus v Atlanta

Colorado v Houston

San Jose v LA

-Sun Jul 2

Philadelphia v New England

dN

USMNT

Friendly Schedule:

-Sat Jul 1

USA v Ghana - 3:45pm CT on ESPN

Pratt + Whitney Stadium - East Hartford

USA Gold Cup Roster

G: Brad Guzan - Atlanta United, Bill Hamid - DC United, Sean Johnson - New York City

D: Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Matt Hedges - Dallas, Eric Lichaj - Nottingham Forest, Matt Miazga - Chelsea, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Jorge Villafana - Santos Laguna, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

M: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Joe Corona - Tijuana, Dax McCarty - Chicago Fire, Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Kenny Saief - Gent, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Sporting Kansas City, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

The place to watch the USMNT in the Twin Cities is Town Hall Brewery in the Seven Corners neighborhood of Minneapolis. They have some great rooms off the main bar with big TVs, and in the very back room a projection screen. Plus the staff is great, excited to see you, and the food is top notch. My beer drinking friends tell me the suds are excellent too (they are known for their award winning beers.)

dN

CONFEDERATIONS CUP

FINAL schedule

-Sun Jul 2

Chile v Germany - 12:pm CT on FS1

dN

Infamous London team Leyton Orient were all but history a few months ago. But a new owner from the USA is going to try to make it a real club again. By David Hytner for the Guardian.

dN

My columns for 1500ESPN.

-New article coming on Monday.

The Bird Is The Word
