It's Day 8 of 2016.

All the latest on Minnesota United stadium building in St Paul. Brian Quarstad of Northern Pitch covered a public meeting yesterday. Lots of little details to glean.

dN

Down goes CONMEBOL! The South American football federation aka CONMEBOL pulled a crafty move in the early 90s relocating their headquarters to Paraguay and getting the government of that country to give the federation the equivalent to diplomatic immunity. But at the end of 2015 Paraguay government leaders rescinded that promise and on Wednesday this week state prosecutors served a search warrant on the CONMEBOL offices and a massive police raid commenced, searching for financial documents. This is all tied to the FIFA corruption scandal being lead by the USA Department of Justice. Info on that raid from The World Weekly.

-My favorite part of the article are the quotes from 2 different CONMEBOL lawyers who basically contradict each other!

dN

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang of Gabon and Borussia Dortmund has been named African Footballer Of The Year. Huge congrats to him.

dN

Every year a lot of tweaking of the rules of soccer go on behind the scenes and we rarely hear about it. So here you go, changes to the laws of the game for 2016. Lots of subtlety. By Rob Harris of the AP.

dN

Alen Marcina was hired as first ever head coach for Rayo OKC.

-Last we saw of Alen he was standing at a baggage carousel in San Antonio getting fired by the Scorpions. Not the band, the now-deceased team.

dN

Liga MX Clausura Opening Weekend:

-Fri Jan 8

Queretaro v Atlas

Tijuana v Pachuca

-Sat Jan 9

America v Puebla

Monterrey v Pumas

Leon v Santos Laguna

Morelia v Cruz Azul

Chiapas v Dorados

-Sun Jan 10

Toluca v Tigres

Guadalajara v Veracruz

-TV schedule.

dN

2016 Canadian Championship begins May 11

-Edmonton and Ottawa face off first

-Winner advances to take on Vancouver, Montreal and Toronto

dN

Introducing LAFC. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

dN

What kind of head coach will the great Zinedine Zidane be? By Paul Doyle and Sid Lowe of the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
