TEAM USA JANUARY TRAINING CAMP

Friendly Match & Score:

-Sat Jan 23

USA v Honduras - 8pm Central - Fox Soccer Channel

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

I will be at the Sweetwater in St Paul taking in all the action. Hope to see you there!

dN

US Soccer gives us the facts and figures in preview.

dN

Official Blog

dN

Noah Davis of Goal.com talks to Robbie Rogers about USA, Columbus Crew, the future etc.

dN

Luke Cyphers of ESPN Soccernet writes about Jonathan Bornstein, or as they call him in Honduras St Jonny.

dN

John Molinaro of the CBC talks to Bob Bradley about prep for the World Cup, and what role friendly matches play in that.

dN

ESPN Soccernet says the extended camp has turned into a soggy one, but the guys there for the first time don't mind at all.

NEW DIVISION 2 SOCCER TEAM IN MINNESOTA

Last night several dozen people with a connection to the world of soccer in Minnesota sat down with the management team behind the new Minnesota club. Many questions were asked back and forth and some info was disseminated. The most exciting news was word that the team is in negotiations was a European team and a MLS team to share players, mostly taking them in on loan for a season from the senior team, and then giving the best Minnesota players a chance to train with those bigger clubs. Any announcement of details a month or more away, but its a step in the right direction for the long haul.

The process for hiring a coach, signing players naming the team, selecting the colors etc is all in motion.

How they field a team in approximating 10 weeks time from now is beyond me, and I certainly wouldn't put any of my hard earned money on them to win that game, even though I think they should!

I was also shocked that virtually no one from the Twin Cities soccer community of a non-Caucasian persuasion was in attendance. Shocked! How short sighted was that?

STARTERS

The USA U20 team got bounced 3-1 by Pachuca today at the Copa Chivas down in Guadalajara. This was the first of 5 group stage games. This is not the way to kick it off. See more info on team and tourney in USA U20 section below.

dN

Rumors were running rampant last night that an agreement in principal was in place between MLS and their Players Union on a new collective bargaining agreement. I think that was totally premature, and the real story was that the Union told their players to report to their club's training camps as usual.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES THIS WEEKEND

-Sat Jan 23

Juventus v Roma - two long time stalwarts who do not like each other battle just to stay in the chase.

-Sun Jan 24

Inter v Milan - it's not just the Derby della Madonnina, it's #1 v #2 in Serie A too.

Getafe v Atletico Madrid - the much lesser Madrid derby.

HAITIAN RELIEF EFFORTS

Real Madrid is going to rebuild a school that was destroyed in the quake.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

Got a cool note from my friend in football Ben at The Original Winger about a pretty cool idea: "...the guys from the new MTV show called The Buried Life ... are involved in a charity that builds soccer fields for kids in war torn countries. MTV has told them that if they get 75k fans on the Facebook fan page that MTV will pay for a soccer field to be built in Uganda."

So here is Ben's full story, and their Facebook link (Let's make MTV put their money on the table - it only takes about 1.4 seconds to join.)

MLS NEWS

Reuters is reporting that New York will open their brand new Red Bull Arena in an exhibition against Santos of Brazil, the team of Pele. The game will be played on Mar 20.

dN

The folks in Kansas City tell me that their new signing Stephane Auvray is "he's a central, holding-type midfielder." Good to know.

-Last night I realized that KC's other new player Pablo Andres Escobar was not only the name sake of the notorious drug overlord (Pablo), but also of the Colombia centerback who scored the Own Goal for the USA at the 94 World Cup (Andres). That is one hell of a burdened name.

dN

The Wizards will also begin their preseason training next Tuesday.

dN

Swap Time: New England sends defensive midfielder Jeff Larentowicz & winger Wells Thompson to Colorado for centerback Cory Gibbs, goalkeeper & World's Ugliest Man contestant Preston Burpo, money and a future draft pick.

-On the surface that is a steal for Colorado, but in reality Larentowicz is in line for a big bump in pay, and has indicated he may leave MLS for Europe.

dN

The Washington Post reports on DC United's new signing Floribet N'Galula. He can play defensive midfield or centerback. He is from the DR Congo.

dN

San Jose has signed Montreal midfielder Joey Gjertsen. Last year they got Samurai Ribeiro from Montreal too.

dN

Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365 breaks down the roster that Philadelphia has built so far. What do they need?

dN

The Philadelphia Daily News with an article on the Union's returning-to-MLS international player Dan Califf.

dN

Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Houston Chronicle tell of the Dynamo's frustration with the ongoing Stuart Holden potential European transfer saga.

dN

Houston has acquired defensive midfielder Kevin Harmse from Chivas USA in exchange for a future draft pick. He will be more cover for the departure of Rambo Clark.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News looks at Salt Lake's preseason plans which begin on Feb 10.

dN

A weekly round-up of former players from MLS.

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

The Oregonian reports that the financial plan to upgrade Portland's PGE Park is in the home stretch, and appears free of all hurdles. The last stamp is expected within the next week.

-Blue Oregon has an open letter from city mayor Sam Adams about the final deal.

TEAM USA

Martin Rogers of Yahoo looks at the positives for Landon Donovan and Clint Dempsey with the big dance ahead.

USA U20 TEAM @ COPA CHIVAS

Copa Chivas

Jan 22 - 30 in Guadalajara Mexico

Official website

Here is the team roster:

G:

Earl Edwards - UCLA

Zac MacMath - Maryland

D:

Michael Ambrose - FC Dallas

Bryan Gallego - NY Red Bulls

Moises Hernandez - FC Dallas

Zach Herold - Toronto FC

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Emilio Orozco - Rampage FC

Eriq Zavaleta - FC Pride

M:

Marlon Duran - Latino Americano

Luis Gil - Pateadores

Fuad Ibrahim - Toronto FC

Carlos Martinez - Wilmington Jr.

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Nick Palodichuk - Washington Premier

F:

Juan Agudelo - NY Red Bulls

Victor Chavez - Real So Cal

Andrew Craven - First Coast Kickers

Stefan Jerome - West Pines United FC

Jack McInerney - Philadelphia Union

Matches & Scores

USA 1-3 Pachuca

USA v Brazil

USA v UANL Tigres

USA v Atlas

USA v Saprissa

The 3 Groups:

Group A

3 Mexico (+1)

0 Chivas USA (-1)

1 Catolica (0)

1 Tecos (0)

0 Tokyo (-1)

3 Santos Laguna (+1)

Group B

0 Brazil (-1)

3 Atlas (+1)

0 USA (-2)

3 Pachuca (+2)

3 Saprissa (+2)

0 UANL Tigres (-2)

Group C

1 Japan (0)

1 Monterrey (0)

0 Houston Dynamo (-2)

3 America (+2)

? Morelia (-)

? Guadalajara (-)

The 1st & 2nd place team from each group, and the two best 3rd place teams will advance to the Quarterfinals.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Adam Spangler of This Is American Soccer talks to Lee Nguyen about his failed attempt to play in MLS this season, and his return to Vietnam where he is a superstar.

dN

Chicago Now lays down the readers questions and Chris Rolfe provides the tough answers.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

FRANCE - Coupe de France

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - Fri Jan 22 at Sumar (Round of 32)

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - Fri Jan 22 v Hansa Rostock

Matt Taylor - Frankfurt - Fri Jan 22 v Greuther Furth

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - Fri Jan 22 at De Graafschap

CANADA

John Molinaro of the CBC feels the USA has been building the national team program the right way, and Canada could take some lessons.

ENGLAND

32 teams face off in the 4th Round of the FA Cup with weekend. Here are those matches.

dN

Chelsea's star midfielder Michael Essien could be out up to 2 months with a torn meniscus in his right knee.

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (after 22 games)

48 Arsenal - Next: Wed Jan 27 at Aston Villa

48 Chelsea (after 21 games) - Next: Wed Jan 27 v Birmingham

47 Manchester United - Next: Sat Jan 23 v Hull

38 Tottenham - Next: Tue Jan 26 v Fulham

38 Manchester City (after 21 games) - week off

37 Liverpool - Next: Tue Jan 26 at Wolverhampton

SPAIN

COPA DEL REY - Quarterfinals

1st Leg

-Thu Jan 21

Atletico Madrid 1-1 Celta Vigo

Racing Santander 2-1 Osasuna

2nd Leg

-Wed Jan 27

Sevilla v Deportivo La Coruna (3-0)

Osasuna v Racing Santander (1-2)

-Thu Jan 28

Getafe v Mallorca (2-1)

Celta Vigo v Atletico Madrid (1-1)

dN

Top La Liga Team Standings (after 18 games)

46 Barcelona - Next: Sat Jan 23 Valladolid

41 Real Madrid - Next: Sun Jan 24 v Malaga

38 Valencia - Next: Sun Jan 24 at Tenerife

33 Mallorca - Next: Sun Jan 24 at Espanyol

31 Deportivo La Coruna - Next: Sat Jan 23 v Athletic Bilbao

30 Sevilla - Next: Sat Jan 23 v Almeria

30 Athletic Bilbao - Next: Sat Jan 23 at Deportivo La Coruna

FRANCE

COUPE DE FRANCE

-Fri Jan 22

Saumur v Stade Rennes

-Sat Jan 23

Beauvais v Agen

Quevilly v Angers

Bordeaux v Ajaccio

Raon-l'Etape v Vesoul

Mulhouse v Guingamp

-Sun Jan 24

Paris St Germain v Evian Thonon Gaillard

Monaco v Lyon

GERMANY

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (after 18 games)

38 Bayer Leverkusen - Next: Sun Jan 24 at Hoffenheim

37 Schalke - Next: Sat Jan 23 at Bochum

36 Bayern Munich - Next: Sat Jan 23 at Werder Bremen

34 Hamburg - Next: Sat Jan 23 at Dortmund

33 Dortmund - Next: Sat Jan 23 v Hamburg

ITALY

Top Serie A Team Standings (after 20 games)

46 Inter - Next: Sun Jan 24 v Milan

40 Milan (after 19 games) - Next: Sun Jan 24 at Inter

35 Roma - Next: Sat Jan 23 at Juventus

34 Napoli - Next: Sun Jan 24 at Livorno

33 Juventus - Next: Sat Jan 23 v Roma

31 Palermo - Next: Sun Jan 24 v Fiorentina

ARGENTINA

Boca Juniors coach Alfio Basile has walked out after a terrible fall season in which the finished 11th, and an equally bad preseason for this spring.
