STARTERS

I am back from Mexico City! Wow, what a trip. More later. On with the show. And remember, stay thirsty my friends.

dN

And I must give a big hello to my fellow travel companions: Kevin, Neal, Andy, Paul, Keith, Sasha, Patrick, Charlie, Tom, Joe, Tate, Regan, Ethan, Adam and especially Andrew who picked me up at the airport! While not forgetting the dozens of people I met, or ran into, or chatted with along the way. You are all fantastic people.

dN

A huge thanks goes out to those who helped fill in here at du Nord while I took a weeks vacation in Mexico City: Prairie Rose Clayton, Daniele Lanza, Chrös McDougal, Mark Fishkin and Dan Gannon. I can't tell you all how much I appreciate your help, and your work.

dN

As part of my trip to the DF I went to the Mexico v USA World Cup qualifier, and before the game I had a great chat with Jason Beaubien, the Mexico City correspondent for NPR. Here is a link to the audio of his report on the game with a few words from me included.

dN

Adam Spangler at This Is American Soccer not only traveled with me for a few days, he also posted a great photo essay on the big game. And yes, that is me in the header.

dN

I have to admit that I was floored to read an account of the match that was so dead on by Bill Simmons, The Sports Guy, from ESPN. Normally he is one of those silly loathsome Boston Red Sox fans, and a known soccer hater, but he got this oh so right. Thank you Bill.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Group Stage games begin this week!

Matchday 1 Matches & Scores:

-Tue Aug 18

Columbus Crew v Puerto Rico Islanders

Marathon v DC United

UNAM Pumas v Comunicaciones

-Wed Aug 19

Houston Dynamo v Isidro Metapan

Arabe Unido v Pachuca

Cruz Azul v Saprissa

-Thu Aug 20

San Juan Jabloteh v Toluca

Real Espana v W Connection

MLS

MLS Week 22 Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 15

Toronto FC 2-0 DC United - TFC goals by Dwayne De Rosario & O'Brian White.

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto CA

Attendance: 20,638

New York Red Bulls 0-2 Chivas USA - CUSA goals by Maykel Galindo & Eduardo Lillingston.

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

Attendance: 10,556

Columbus Crew 2-0 FC Dallas - CC goals by Chad Marshall & Eddie Gaven.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 19,115

Real Salt Lake 0-0 Houston Dynamo

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 16,972

Los Angeles Galaxy 0-2 Seattle Sounders FC - SSFC goals by Steve Zakuani & Fredy Montero.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 20,162

-Sun Aug 16

Kansas City Wizards 0-2 Chicago Fire - CF goals by Chris Rolfe & Mike Banner

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Attendance: 9.974

dN

EJECTIONS:

Andrew Hainault - Houston Dynamo - 2 Yellow Cards - 36 minute

Clint Mathis - Real Salt Lake - 2 Yellow Cards - 45+ min

David Beckham - Los Angeles Galaxy - Red Card - 17 min

Eddie Lewis - Los Angeles Galaxy - Red Card - 79 min

Tyrone Marshall - Seattle Sounders FC - 2 Yellow Cards - 76 min

Zoltan Hercegfalvi - Red Card - 85 min

dN

Check this out: There were 6 games this weekend, one ends in a scoreless draw, while the other five are 2-0 games! What are the odds of that happening?

dN

It's pretty cool to see Columbus finally draw the size crowd that they deserve. They are the defending champs, and are now the top team in the standings again. Come on Cow-towners. Get out to the games!

dN

Despite being diagnosed with Swine Flu Landon Donovan came on in the 46th minute for LA who were already a man down at home.

dN

The Columbus Crew has now gone 20 games in a row at home without a loss.

dN

Colin Clark, left sided midfielder for Colorado, will miss the rest of the season with a torn left ACL. This could be a big blow to a team that was playing above average for the first time in several years.

dN

Dwayne DeRosario has scored in 4 straight games for Toronto.

dN

DC has signed Burundi international fullback David Habarugira. He last played in 07-08 for Union Saint-Gilloise in the Belgian 2nd Division. He also can slide into the middle of the defense if need be.

dN

Chivas USA has acquired forward Jesus Padilla from the mothership in Guadalajara. If you remember back a year or so ago, he was the player who caused some controversey because it was found that he was actually born in the United States and not Mexico, while playing for Chivas of Guadalajara who live by the golden rule that they only sign Mexican, not foreign, players.

-The team also signed centerback Yamith Cuesta on a loan deal from Colombian team Expreso Rojo.

dN

Greg Lalas of Sports Illustrated with a perversely brilliant idea - Landon Donovan should go play in Mexico! I say Club American baby!

dN

Kristian Dyer of ESPN Soccernet on Landon Donovan's amazing goal (2 weeks back) and lots of other MLS and USA soccer news.

dN

"It was the worst night in my 12-year-career." New York centerback Mike Petke gives us the second part of his views on his teams loss in the Champions League. This guy really delivers the goods. Via Soccernet.

dN

Steve Davis writing for MLSnet gives us a look at some interesting things from the weekend's games. Including 5 rookie starters for TFC, 6 Red Cards, and many other astute observations that TV announcers never seem to notice.

dN

Sam Stejskal of Chicago Now with a good Fire update.

dN

Soccer America on the league's new summer signings. Will they help their clubs make a run for the glory?

dN

The Sun Chronicle of Attleboro, MA talks to the Rev's long injured star Taylor Twellman about his status. (If you want a real update just look over in the top left column of du Nord for our Q & A with him)

MLS EXPANSION

The Suburban Journals in St Louis reports on another potential stadium site in the area.

USL FIRST DIVISION

Ben Rycroft of Metro News Toronto on the sale of USL to new investors by current owner Nike, which could possibly be MLS.

dN

Portland continues to build on their league record unbeaten streak which is now at 22 games.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Aug 14

Miami FC Blues 0-1 Minnesota Thunder

-Sat Aug 15

Rochester Rhinos 1-4 Portland Timbers

Puerto Rico Islanders 1-0 Montreal Impact

Vancouver Whitecaps 0-0 Carolina RailHawks

-Sun Aug 16

Austin Aztex 2-2 Minnesota Thunder

dN

Standings (with goal differential):

48 Portland(+25)

44 Charleston(+12)

43 Carolina(+15)

41 Puerto Rico(+9)

32 Rochester(+2)

26 Vancouver(+2)

26 Montreal(-3)

- - Out of Playoffs - -

25 Miami (-10)

19 Minnesota(-9)

15 Austin(-18) - 2 points deducted for using suspended player

13 Cleveland(-25)

dN

Mid-Week Games coming up:

-Tue Aug 18

Carolina RailHawks v Vancouver Whitecaps

Cleveland City Stars v Montreal Impact

-Wed Aug 19

Rochester Rhinos v Minnesota Thunder

-Thu Aug 20

Charleston Battery v Vancouver Whitecaps

TEAM USA

Jeff Carlisle of Soccernet has had some time to look back on last Wednesday's loss in the DF and blames the midfield. I agree completely.

USA U17 TEAM

The team played 2 friendlies last week in preparation for the World Cup.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 12

USA 1-1 Colombia - no details supplied

-Sat Aug 15

USA 2-2 Colombia USA goals by Juan Agudelo & Alex Shinsky.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Charlie Davies bags 2 goals for Sochaux in a losing effort!!! See more details below.

-Fanhouse on Davies great start.

dN

Mike Woitalla of Soccer America reports this craziness: "Borussia Moenchglabach and Hannover 96 kept Michael Bradley and Steve Cherundolo, respectively, out of their lineups after they returned from the USA loss to Mexico on Wednesday with news that teammate Landon Donovan had been diagnosed with swine flu even though neither had tested positive. The German media reported they had been quarantined".

dN

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 talks to Vincenzo Bernardo about the possibility of a loan deal away from Napoli.

dN

Fulham has announced that Clint Dempsey has gotten a new contract which runs through 2013. Make sure to follow all the Fulham news at the great fan site Craven Cottage Newsround.

dN

In case you missed it last week, Jozy Altidore did receive his English work permit, so he can officially suit up for Hull City now, but he did not last weekend as they opened the season with a last minute 2-1 loss at Chelsea.

dN

There is a cloud hanging out there that says Freddy Adu may be loaned by Benfica to Odense in Denmark this season. Watch for rain.

dN

Mike Grella at Leeds has been given a new 3 year contract. Very cool. From the Leeds OWS. (thanks to JK for this one)

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

BELGIUM - Exqi League

Niko Gkionis - Royal Liege - season begins on Wed Aug 19 at Tubize.

CROATIA

Johann Smith - Rijeka - came on as a sub in the 65th minute but they lost 1-0 at Cibalia.

DENMARK - Superliga

Dan Califf - Midtjylland - play at Odense on Mon Aug 17

Benny Feilhaber - Aarhus - came off the bench in the 81st minute as they won 0-1 at Kobenhavn.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - played the whole match as they went on the road and tied 1-1 at Koge.

Jeremiah White - Aarhus - started and lasted 71 minutes as they won 0-1 at Kobenhavn.

ENGLAND - Premiership

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - played all 90 minutes and took the shot that deflected off a teammate for the only goal as they won 0-1 at Portsmouth.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance in goal but lost 0-2 at home to Wigan.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance but got absolutely pulverized at home 1-6 by Arsenal! Wow.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - came on as a sub in the 65th min of a 0-2 road win at Wolverhampton.

ENGLAND - Championship

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the distance but they lost 2-0 at Sheffield United.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Milton Keynes - played the entirety of a scoreless draw at Swindon Town.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - played the full game and they drew 1-1 at Nice.

Charlie Davies - Sochaux - came off the bench right after halftime and scored 2 goals, but they lost 3-2 at defending champs Bordeaux.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Sal Zizzo - Hannover - came on in the 76th min of a 1-1 tie with Mainz.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - started and played 72 minutes of a 2-1 loss at Hansa Rostock.

David Yelldell - Koblenz - played the full 90 and they won 3-2 at home over Arminia Bielefeld.

IRELAND - Premier Division

Ryan Guy - St Patrick's Athletic - drew 0-0 at Monaghan United in the FAI Cup.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the entire match but lost 2-4 at home to Cambuur Leeuwarden.

NORWAY - Tippeligaen

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - came on in the 81st minute of a scoreless draw at Tromso.

Hunter Freeman - Start - went the full 90 in a 1-0 home win over Fredrikstad.

Clarence Goodson - Start - went the full 90 in a 1-0 home win over Fredrikstad.

Troy Perkins - Valerenga - in goal for the whole game as usual but lost 0-1 at home to Lillestrom.

Brian Waltrip - Molde - play Mon Aug 17 at Viking Stavanger

NORWAY - Adeccoligaen

Joe Lapira - Nybergsund - started and played 85 minutes of a 4-1 loss at Haugesund.

Connor Tobin - Nybergsund - started and played 88 minutes of a 4-1 loss at Haugesund.

PORTUGAL

Kamani Hill - Vitoria de Guimaraes - travel to Vitoria Setubal on Mon Aug 17

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - host Djurgarden on Mon Aug 17

SWEDEN - Superettan

Ryan Miller - Ljungskile - played all 90 as they won 2-1 at home over Atvidabergs.

Etchu Tabe - Ljungskile - played all 90 as they won 2-1 at home over Atvidabergs.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL - played all 90 minutes, got a Yellow Card, and the team won 1-2 at UNAM Pumas.

Michael Orozco - San Luis - went the full 90 and scored his teams second goal in a 3-0 home win over Pachuca.

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - started but came off at halftime, and they lost big 3-0 on the road at San Luis.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - started and played the first 45 as they got demolished 5-0 at Morelia.

CONCACAF

Noah Davis at Goal.com looks at a very interesting scenario where the top 4 teams in CONCACAF could all end World Cup qualifying with 19 points. What a mind bender that would be!

MEXICO

Defending champs Pumas has started the new season by losing all 4 games. Oof.
