It's Day 214 of 2017.

My new column at 1500ESPN: The Biggest Test Of The Year Lies Ahead for the USA Men's National Soccer Team. Plus Minnesota United's latest and MLS's use of the Video Assisted Referee.

dN

Adidas + MLS have signed a new 6 year extension of their apparel deal. y Eben Novy-Williams for Bloomberg.

This report says the deal is worth $700M in total. By Chris Smith for Forbes.

The new deal is worth approx $5M per team each season.

The original deal in 2004 was for 10 years at $15 Million per season.

Renegotiated after 6 years in 2010 for 8 years at $25 Million per season.

Renegotiated again now (1 year early) for 6 more years at $117 Million per season.

dN

US Open Cup

The last 2 non-MLS teams play for a spot in the Semi-finals next week.

Quarterfinals schedule:

-Wed Aug 2

Miami v Cincinnati

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

How bad is the hamstring injury for Christian Ramirez? By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

I bet he doesn't play this weekend against Seattle.

What are the player options for Saturday? By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Schedule:

-Sat Aug 5

Minnesota v Seattle - 7pm CT on My29

The Loons has a week off after this game.

dN

MLS

Chicago Fire organization have provided a big turnaround in 2017. How in the world did they do it? by Sam Stejskal for MLS.

Sebastian Schweinsteiger has added a lot to the Fire, and Chicago has added a lot to him. By Jeff Arnold for the New York Times.

After 10 years there are clear signs that the MLS team academies are producing some pro players. By Jeff Rueter for ESPNFC.

Why is MLS a destination for so few Mexican players? By Rafael Ramos for ESPNFC.

So what is Bob Bradley's plan for LAFC? By Scott French for Four Four Two.

In depth interview with Portland Timbers head coach Caleb Porter. Covering a lot of ground here. By Scott French for Four Four Two.

dN

Target is investing in youth soccer too, with money for clubs and fields. By Nicole Norfleet for the Star Tribune.

dN

Kendall McIntosh of Portland Timbers 2 named USL Player Of The Week

Megan Rapinoe of Seattle Reign named NWSL Player Of The Month for July.

dN

Why have some big European soccer stars invested in 2 minor league teams in America? By Adam Elder for the Guardian.

dN

That one didn't work out for Freddy:

Just wanted to let everyone know that I will not be signing with sandecja. I have been in a situation like this before in Monaco and it ...

— Freddy Adu (@FreddyAdu) August 1, 2017

dN

GUARDIAN 2017-18 PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM PREVIEWS:

Crystal Palace

Chelsea

Burnley

Brighton + Hove Albion

Bournemouth

Arsenal

dN

Why is Neymar leaving Barcelona for PSG? And does it have anything to do with Leo Messi's shadow? By Sid Lowe for the Guardian.

The money is insane. Every one of us would take this deal in a heartbeat.

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
