Hi all, Andrea Canales here. I feel a bit like I'm in a cathedral of sorts. Bruce isn't a stuffy person at all, but DuNord is hallowed ground. It's a little plot of the soccer Internet universe that brucio has tended for years, making it unique, insightful and incredibly comprehensive. It's a futbol garden in full bloom and I'm here trying not to bump into anything for a day.

Let me just say I don't know how Bruce does it, such good work here and a job elsewhere. I share a blog with Luis Bueno, Sideline Views. Since I'm also employed elsewhere, I just usually post whatever random stuff I can from time to time there. Playing Bruce for a day was tiring and I respect him more than ever. Have a great vacation, Bruce!

U.S v Spain

Bouncing back

Timmay!

Getting it right

More preview

Iniesta out

The USMNT blog

Europe

Stay to support

Injured players a cloud?

Ballack! I met Ballack when he first signed with Chelsea and came to train in LA. Nice guy. What struck me was that he seemed kind of shy. I asked him about Klinsmann, though, and he lit up. Klinsy was definitely popular with the German players.

Even if you're not English, this might help you choose a team

Beeb Euro page

Soccernet Euro page

CONCACAF

Boo, hiss, Jerk Warner

I was covering the u17 World Cup in Peru when I ran into Warner. He stepped into the Marriot elevator I was in. "You're Jack Warner!" I said, grabbing my ever-ready recorder. "Mr. Warner, could I ask a couple of questions?" He looked unhappily at me and said coldly, "These floors are off limits to press." I looked around. We were in the elevator, descending to the lobby. Or so I thought. He pushed a button and got off at the next floor.

More JW crap

Wait until 2022

Trustworthy? As if

Canada ego boost

Big ego boost

Boyz back in action

US, Mexico, England bid

Mexico and Sven

Mexico's Maxi nightmare

Columbus Crew

Crowd controversy covered

History

New England Revs

Scary scene for Kenny

Chicago Fire

Bring Brian! But honestly, is there a team in MLS that needs McBride less than the one he wants to join? Weird paradox.

No dirty running for Blanco

TFC

Oh, when will players like us? Actually, I can inform RJ right now that one factor keeping Toronto from bringing Tomasz Radzinski home to Canada from Greece is the artificial surface of BMO field. Ante Jazic told me Radz is adamant that it's bad for athletes. Radz might join Canada's next MLS team, though, if they play on grass.

Kansas City Wizards

Lance Watson, former Lobo! Some game was also apparently played.

More on that game

New York Red Bull

No actual soccer knowledge needed

Reinforcement welcome

DC United

Prince woos United

Coochie-coo

Houston Dynamo

All the right moves

Spittin' image of a suspension for Eddie Robinson

Dynamic garage sale

White House history

John "Fire didn't offer enough fuel to stoke my fire" Spencer

Los Angeles Galaxy

Tuesday was an Open Cup game! Oh, nevermind. But compare Ruud in that photo to this.

OGDB tells Ronny to Stay Puft

OGDB wants to play WC again

He sells shirts - and MLS gets blamed for Wembley fiasco

Chivas USA

Where Sigi likes to eat - I'm guessing he took the team to Alpine Village, but I'm not sure.

Dream a little dream

Colorado Rapids

Everton Upcoming

The Scot - one of Colorado's local sports announcers even referenced Braveheart after a McManus clip of postgame comments

SJ Earthquakes

Norwich versus SJ

Real Salt Lake

Moving on I've had this argument with others before - that LA is the only MLS franchise to make a profit, and RSL's president supports my point. That's not to say that other organizations aren't closer to profitability than before, but the league as a whole isn't a moneymaker, by far.

Real realistic

Xangos on the loose in summertime

Not really Real-related, but can I just say how much I hope Paxti goes pro one day? The announcing calls would be priceless - "Shortsleeve save!"

FC Dallas

Denial of interest? Interesting interpretation.

Bothering Burse

All things FC

Misc.

MISL dies

could futsal replace it?

Herculez Gomez is the last player I know of who moved from MISL to MLS - does anyone know of any other recent arrivals? Obviously, Preki was legendary in the genre. The MISL folding also affects Jamar Beasley, DaMarcus' brother, who plays for Detroit.
