It's Day 90 of 2017.

Another soccer media member adds to the list of those saying Jermaine Jones might be past his sell-by date and should probably be replaced in the USMNT starting lineup. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

dN

The John Coltrane documentary Chasing Trane comes out in mid to late April. And Denzel Washington is the voice of Coltrane. This is a great trailer. From Vanity Fair.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

MNUFC has reportedly traded Mohamed Saied and Joshua Gatt to Colorado Rapids in exchange for defensive midfielder Sam Cronin and left fullback Marc Burch. The 2 news players have both been regulars in the Rapids starting 11.

Will they be in Minnesota for Saturday's game and will they see playing time? No, seems to be the answer floating around.

The Minn players all know what they have to do on Saturday, and they are asking each other to step forward. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Kevin Molino must be a big part of this. He has contributed but he has to improve.

Match Schedule/Results:

-Sat Apr 1

Minnesota v Sale Lake - 7pm CT on My29.

dN

MLS

There is one team in MLS that is nearly as miserable as Minnesota. That's DC United. They have played 1 fewer games but still have yet to score a goal. ZERO GOALS!! At least Minnesota has 6 goals, which is decent.

Vancouver has sent Kekuta Manneh and to Columbus for Tony Tchani and bunch of salary cap relief money.

Week 5 Schedule/Results:

-Fri Mar 31

Toronto v Kansas City - 6:30pm CT on FS1

Seattle v Atlanta - 9:00pm CT on FS1

-Sat Apr 1

New York City v San Jose

Chicago v Montreal - 3:00pm CT on UniMas

Columbus v Orlando

DC v Philadelphia

Minnesota v Salt Lake

Houston v New York Red Bulls

Vancouver v LA

-Sun Apr 2

Portland v New England

- 8:00pm CT on ESPN2

dN

USL has announced that they will start a 3rd division in 2019 - USLD3.

This would be the perfect spot for all the MLS affiliated teams.

dN

The Terrence Boyd + Darmstadt Tracker:

Standings - Last place, 12 points below relegation playoff and 14 points from safety.

Up Next - Sat Apr 1 at Leipzig

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Standings - 4th place, now 3 points behind 1st after 10 of 17 games.

Up Next - Sat Apr 1 at Atlas

dN

Premier League: 10 things to look out for this weekend. From The Guardian.

Good looking games this weekend in Europe's top leagues:

-Fri Mar 31

Hertha v Hoffenheim - #5 v #4

-Sat Apr 1

Napoli v Juventus - #3 v #1

Liverpool v Everton - he Merseyside derby

Schalke v Dortmund - the Ruhr derby

-Sun Apr 2

Arsenal v Manchester City - 2 big teams, #6 v #3

The Bird Is The Word
