It's Day 22 of 2018.

The Twin Cities remain perplexingly optimistic today: "MSP Airport is still open, but due to heavy snowfall and winds in the area, all four of our runways are closed."

dN

Attention lefty hipsters, another club is making a comeback just for you - Red Star of Paris. By Mark Godfrey for the Guardian.

The founder of the club was Jules Rimet who the World Cup trophy is named for.

dN

LOS LOONS

Preseason begins today! The players are here:

¡#LosLoons de vuelta a casa! ?????? pic.twitter.com/AD3vLj9REZ

— Los Loons (@MNUFCes) January 22, 2018

FYI: MU didn't have any picks in the 3rd + 4th rounds of the MLS draft.

Off Season Signings:

Harrison Heath

Tyrone Mears

Frantz Pangop

Mason Toye - (Generation Adidas contract)

Matt Lampson

We now wait to hear from the team who is on their training camp roster.

New signing Frantz Pangop is with Cameroon in the African Nations Championship - Group Stage:

Gm1 Tue Jan 16 v Congo - lost 1-0 - Started and subbed off

Gm2 Sat Jan 20 v Angola - lost 1-0 - Started and subbed off

--Eliminated from Knock Out Rounds--

Gm3 Wed Jan 24 v Burkina Faso

dN

MLS

Its official, Atlanta spent $15 million to buy 18 year old attacking midfielder Ezequiel Barco from Independiente in Argentina. It breaks all MLS transfer buy records by a mile.

LA Galaxy has acquired Crew forward Ola Kamara in a player swap for Gyasi Zardes and up to $500k in TAM.

Slice it any way you want but #SaveTheCrew is going to be a giant presence in the 2018 Columbus Crew season:

Federico Higuaín finds it tough to talk about @ColumbusCrewSC uncertain future, "It's hard to talk about this because I like the city, because I love the club, because Im proud to be part of this club, because I like the fans - the relationship is reciprocal so it’s very hard"

— Alicia Rose DelGallo (@OSAliciaD) January 20, 2018

Galaxy announced the signing of free agent Chris Pontius. Played with PhilaUnion last season.

What the expansion of Portland's stadium will be all about. By Tim Newcomb for Four Four Two.

dN

USMNT JANUARY CAMP

Friendly coming up on Sunday night.

-Sun Jan 28

USA v Bosnia + Herzegovina - 8:30pm CT on FS1

Stub Hub Center - Carson CA

dN

US SOCCER

Bruce Arena saying there were a couple of "bad eggs" in the USMNT during the end of the failed World Cup qualifying run is one of the most bullshit excuses I could imagine. And other reasons for failure. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Landon Donovan started training with Leon today.

Weston McKennie suffered a knee injury playing for Schalke on Sunday. Here is the official news from Schalke on Monday evening:

?? @WMckennie suffered a partial rupture to the medial collateral ligament in his right knee during #S04H96. He will be out for around 6 weeks. Get well soon, Weston! #s04 pic.twitter.com/3uU4Is21t2

— FC Schalke 04 (@s04_en) January 22, 2018

Lots more bits of news, both good (Chandler + Saief) and bad (Yedlin + Miazga). From Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

dN

EUROPE

Seven former youth players at Chelsea have filed racism complaints against a youth coach and a staff member. By Martha Kelner for the Guardian.

Pippo Inzaghi has raised Lazio to third place in Serie A. When was the last time they pulled that off? By Paolo Bandini.

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S 5 TOP LEAGUES

Important weekend results:

PSG has lost, this time to 2nd place Lyon, but the gap is still 8 points.

Leipzig fell to Freiburg.

Valencia lost again and are probably no longer worthy of this list, although they are still 5 points ahead of Real Madrid.

Barcelona is still UNBEATEN: 17-3-0

Schedule/Results:

-Fri Jan 19

Hertha 1-1 Dortmund

Caen 0-2 Marseille

-Sat Jan 20

Arsenal 4-1 Crystal Palace

Atletico Madrid 1-1 Girona

Brighton & Hove 0-4 Chelsea

Freiburg 2-1 Leipzig

Man City 3-1 Newcastle

Burnley 0-1 Man United

Las Palmas 2-1 Valencia

-Sun Jan 21

Real Betis 0-5 Barcelona

Bayern 4-2 Werder Bremen

Inter 1-1 Roma

Lyon 2-1 PSG

Cagliari 1-2 Milan

Monaco 3-1 Metz

Atalanta 0-1 Napoli

Real Madrid 7-1 Deportivo La Coruna

Schalke 1-1 Hannover

Southampton 1-1 Tottenham

-Mon Jan 22

Juventus v Genoa

Swansea v Liverpool

-Wed Jan 24

Sampdoria v Roma

The Bird Is The Word
