It's Day 131 of 2017.

We have heard many times in the past week that US Soccer has over $100 Million sitting in its savings account at the bank. (Not an actual savings account.) So what should they do with the money. I have three ideas: 1. COACHING. 2. COACHING. 3. COACHING.

dN

This is not news to anyone who closely follows FIFA, but its still very sad to read: "FIFA hasn't changed since Blatter era, says Prince Ali." By Simon Evans for Reuters.

The president Gianni Infantino gets defense, throws around a lot of accusations, and backs none of it up. Sound familiar? By Evans.

Later Infantino spoke clearly in saying that the people who have been removed from their jobs were fired because they "miserably failed" in their task of ridding the organization of corruption and scandal. (THAT is how a transparent org explains its actions.) By Tariq Panja of Bloomberg.

dN

An interview with Ben Grossman (a Minnesota United minority owner) who in real life is a sports TV producer. [AUDIO] By Alexi Lalas for the Mutant Gene Podcast.

As long as we are listening to audio - Grant Wahl and Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated talk all kinds of soccer on Wahl's podcast. FIFA gets lots of air time and eventually around the 33:00 minute mark they land on Minnesota United. [AUDIO] By Grant Wahl for Planet Futbol podcast.

dN

US Open Cup - First Round Results

Des Moines Menace will NOT be a potential opponent for Minnesota because they lost to ? last night. Damn. I always enjoy playing them.

Second Round games begin on May 17 - with USL and NASL teams entering the tournament.

MLS teams enter in Fourth Round on Jun 14.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE SEMIFINALS

Final:

-Sat Jun 3

Juventus v Real Madrid - 1:45pm CT on Fox

Cardiff Wales

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

The first 5 weeks of the season were quite different than the last 5 weeks have been. What brought about that change? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

That didn't last long - Johan Venegas was back in training today. Sat down with the coach, sat down with teammates, and cleared the air. Good. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Last night made it 5 wins in a row for the Loons host on Saturday, Toronto.

Up Next Schedule/Results:

-Sat May 13

Toronto v Minnesota - 2:00pm CT on My29

dN

Screams: du Nord Music Mix Vol 123 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Toronto won again but are feeling tired, which could lead to the overlooking the Loons. Match report from last night. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

Young American midfielder Brooks Lennon is on loan this season at Real Salt Lake from Liverpool and he is living up to expectations, and then some. By Ben Valentine for Goal.

Top 9 American forwards in MLS. By Caitlin Murray for Fox Sports.

New England Rev's will have a brand new fake-shit turf field for this wekeends game against Salt Lake.

LA fullback Robbie Rogers is not recovering at all from an ankle injury and has been put on the official injured list for the rest of the season.

Week 11 Schedule/Results:

-Wed May 10

Columbus 1-2 Toronto

-Fri May 12

Houston v Vancouver

-Sat May 13

Toronto v Minnesota

Colorado v San Jose - 3:00pm CT on UniMas

Montreal v Columbus

DC v Philadelphia

Orlando v Kansas City

New England v Salt Lake

Chicago v Seattle - 8:00pm CT on ESPN2

-Sun May 14

Portland v Atlanta - 3:00pm CT on ESPN

NYRB v LA - 5:00pm CT on FS1

Dallas v NYC - 7:00pm CT on FS1

dN

Cristian Portilla of San Francisco Deltas Named NASL Player Of The Week

CJ Sapong of Philadelphia Union Named MLS Player Of The Week

Dane Kelly of Reno 1868 Named USL Player Of The Week

dN

Billy Forbes of San Antonio has been Named USL Player Of The Month for April

Forbes has always been a big du Nord favorite in the NASL.

dN

USMNT

Fab Johnson has signed a new contract to stay at Borussia Monchengladbach:

???? Fabian Johnson hat seinen Vertrag bis 2020 verlängert! Sichert euch jetzt eine Woche lang den Johnson-Flock gratis im Fohlenshop. pic.twitter.com/sfXtk0Uyby

— Borussia (@borussia) May 11, 2017

dN

Canadian Championship

Ottawa wins on the road and advances.

Prelim Round Schedule/Results:

2nd Leg

-Wed May 10

Edmonton 2-3 Ottawa - Ott advances 4-2 on aggregate.

Semifinals Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Tue May 23

Ottawa v Toronto

Vancouver v Montreal

dN

LIGA MX PLAYOFFS

Toluca with 4 soul crushing away goals v Santos.

Tigres roared past Monterrey in a game that shows seeding rarely matter in Laguilla.

American Jorge Villafana went the full 90 for Santos Laguna and set up their only goal in the bad loss.

Clausura Liguilla Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

Leg 1

-Wed May 10

Tigres(7) 4-1 Monterrey(2)

Santos Laguna(5) 1-4 Toluca(4)

-Thu May 11

Morelia(8) v Tijuana(1) - 7:30pm CT on Azteca America

Atlas(6) v Guadalajara(3) - 9:30pm CT on Azteca America

dN

BIG GAMES IN EUROPE:

-Sat May 13

Leipzig v Bayern - the race is over but its still #2 v #1

-Sun May 14

Roma v Juventus - #3 v #1 - 3 games to go and 6 points between them

Real Madrid v Sevilla - #2 v #4

The Bird Is The Word
