It's Day 225 of 2016.

Giveaway Time: I am going to be asking some questions and compiling answers over the next week to give away a customized ESPN Deportes soccer jersey with "du Nord" on the back.

Today's question: Tell me about the first time you saw (with your own two eyes) an amazing feat in pro-soccer.

dN

The USA Women are OUT! Beaten by Sweden in a Penalty Kick Shootout. The cruelest way to go.

Women's Olympic Tournament

Quarterfinals:

-Fri Aug 12

USA 1-1 Sweden - Swe wins 4-3 in Penalty Kick Shootout - USA goal by Alex Morgan. Swe goal by Stina Blackstenius.

How did the Penalty Kicks go?

USA: S123M

SWE: 12S34

Penalty Kicks are a horrible way to end a soccer game. But the drama they create is incredible and hard to top.

(More Olympic coverage below.)

dN

International Football Association Board (IFAB), the group that oversees soccer rules, will be testing the Video Assistant Referee tonight during the USL game New York Red Bulls II v Orlando City B. Things are moving forward.

Red Bull Arena has been a testing ground for the system for a while now, and this is the first time it will be used during a live game.

The next 5 home games for RBNY II will see the system tested.

The VAR system will be used to check 4 things:

Verify Goals

Verify penalty calls

Verify straight red cards

Correct mistaken identity of red cards

But herein lies the rub! This week MLS said two calls in the LA v RBNY game last Sunday would have been called Penalties had the VAR been in use. But LA has since pointed out that one of those 2 plays should have been a moot point because the player that was later fouled was initially offside, yet wasn't called so by the referee. By Adam Serano of LA Galaxy.

Be prepared; video replay will not be perfect and will open new cans of worms.

dN

MLS Week 23

Big Matches:

-Sat Aug 13

Dallas v Sporting Kansas City - 8pm CT on MLS Live

LA Galaxy v Colorado Rapids - 9:30pm CT on MLS Live

dN

NASL Week 17

Big Matches:

-Sat Aug 13

Indy Eleven v Rayo OKC - 6:30pm CT on ESPN3

-Sun Aug 14

Edmonton v Minnesota United - 3pm CT on MY29 in Twin Cities + ESPN3

dN

A report from Minnesota United training this week, including plenty of injury talk. By Jeff Rueter of Fifty Five One.

Ben Speas: “We have a lot of guys who are capable of stepping up and filling in." The problem Ben is that they are not doing that. In fact its almost he opposite, they are failing to contribute at all.

dN

Montreal Impact still has 2 players on the roster today from their NASL days. Evan Bush and Henry Camara. Patrice Bernier was on the team even before that, in the USL days, then left and returned when the club moved to MLS. By Bill Beacon of the Canadian Press, via Montreal Gazzette.

dN

Women's Olympic Other Quarterfinals Match Schedule:

-Fri Aug 12

Brazil v Australia

Germany v China

Canada v France

dN

Brazil finally busted loose in the Men's Olympic tournament after over 2 years of really bad soccer for the national team. They beat Denmark 4-0 to advance to the knock out stages.

-Men's Olympic Tournament

Quarterfinals Match Schedule:

-Sat Aug 13

Portugal v Germany

Nigeria v Denmark

S Korea v Honduras

Brazil v Colombia

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

[UPDATED]Up Next - Tied Fri Aug 12 1-1 at Gazelec Ajaccio

dN

Managers are not the big factor in soccer today the way they once were. Not even the big big big names. By Simon Kuper of the Financial Times.

"Average tenure (of managers) in English football has dropped from 3.5 years in 1992 to 1.3 years now."

Its been way too long since I last linked to a story by Kuper who is one of my favorite soccer culture writers.

dN

English Premier League team-by-team season previews. From the Guardian:

West Bromwich Albion Football Club

West Ham United Football Club

And here are previews of the other 18 teams in the 2016-17 season of the English Premier League:

Arsenal Football Club

Athletic Football Club Bournemouth

Burnley Football Club

Chelsea Football Club

Crystal Palace Football Club

Everton Football Club

Hull City Association Football Club

Leicester City Football Club

Liverpool Football Club

Manchester City Football Club

Manchester United Football Club

Middlesbrough Football Club

Southampton Football Club

Stoke City Football Club

Sunderland Association Football Club

Swansea City Association Football Club

Tottenham Hotspur Football Club

Watford Football Club

dN

Premier League: 10 things to look out for on opening weekend .From the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
