CLINT DEMPSEY INJURY

Noooooooooooooooooooo! In Fulham's Sunday loss at Blackburn Clint Dempsey sustained a knee injury!

Manager Roy Hodgson: "It looks he has suffered cruciate knee ligament damage which if he has keeps him out of action for a while. We won't know for certain until the scan is completed on Monday but the doctors are pretty good these days and often their initial prognosis proves to be the correct one." He later went on to say: "The extent of Clint Dempsey's knee injury will be known following a scan [Monday]."

The seriousness of the injury beyond that is unknown. It could be bad, or it could be minor. But we have heard that he suffered some sort of cruciate ligament damage.

The team's official website will have the latest as soon as anyone else.

The BBC report is not sounding good.

Some words from USA coach Bob Bradley on the injury: "Obviously we're waiting on reports of the scan. We saw the play and it looks like such a harmless play. Now we just need to wait and see and keep our fingers crossed.

You never want to see your players injured and Clint has been in good form. We have the hope that the time is right for him to be able to get through this, continue to play for his club team as well as he has and be ready for the World Cup.

Clint has been an important player for us. He's a true competitor and he puts his and heart and soul into every game. His role with our team has been important and he continues to be a guy we count on a great deal. He's got that little extra ability you can't always teach to sometimes make a little bit of room and come up with a chance, like yesterday on the overhead [kick which hit the crossbar in the first half]. Those things are important for us and continue to be important for Fulham."

(Poached from the Team USA blog. See link and details below in Team USA January Camp section.)

STARTERS

The Liverpool Echo talks to Landon Donovan, and after 2 good games he is already talking extension of his loan deal.

dN

Chivas USA keeper Zach Thornton comments on his first call up for Team USA back in 1994: "I wasn't in to following soccer and I had no idea who Steve Sampson was." (Sampson was the assistant to coach Bora Milutinovic and made the phone call to Thornton.) See a great Q & A with Thornton in the Team USA January Camp section below.

dN

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated makes the trip to Cabinda, Angola for the Ghana v Ivory Coast game. This is the place with rebels opened fire on the Togo team last week.

-Wahl has some video for us too, of an anti-violence rally in Cabinda.

dN

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tells us about the best team so far at the Africa Cup of Nations - Egypt.

-He also writes about the strong showing by the team from the host country - Angola.

MLS NEWS

Sam Stejskal of Chicago Now tries to help us understand why Fire fullback Gonzalo Segares would leave MLS to sign a deal to play in Cyprus.

MLS RUMORS

Is Mexican-American defender Michael Orozco from San Luis headed to Philadelphia?

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Chicago Tribune non-sports columnist John Kass writes another love note to soccer in America - this is a big year ahead.

TEAM USA JANUARY TRAINING CAMP

Official Blog

-Q & A with Zach Thornton.

dN

Friendly Match & Score:

-Sat Jan 23

USA v Honduras AKA the Jonathan Bornstein Tribute Match - 8pm Central on FSC

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Remember when Kenny Cooper got a knee injury and the prognosis was for him to miss about 3 weeks of action. Well, it's been nearly 9 know, and we have no heard anything. What is going on?

-Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 gives us an update.

dN

Jozy Altidore did not make the bench for Hull City, probably due to the insanity going down in Haiti. (They drew 0-0 at Tottenham.)

dN

Zak Whitbread made his Norwich debut as a substitute.

dN

The little known 23 year old forward Jon Paul Pitman scored his 5th goal of the season for Wycombe in England's League One. He has been on a roll lately!

dN

DaMarcus Beasley is still out with the hamstring strain. Damn!

dN

Carlos Bocanegra is just shit out of luck at Rennes, as he spent yet another game riding the pine. He better get it figured out soon cuz the World Cup is just too close for him not to be playing.

dN

Jonathan Spector has played at left fullback again for West Ham. I think he should get a shot at that position for Team USA.

dN

Freddy Adu made the bench for the first time at his new team in Greece, but did not play. Eddie Johnson did though, see below for details.

dN

GAME ACTION

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - started but was subbed out in the 62nd minute due to injury as they lost 2-0 at Blackburn.

Landon Donovan - Everton - started and was subbed out in the 90th minute as they beat Manchester City 2-0 at home.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the full 90 and drew 0-0 at home with West Ham.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - went the distance, stopping a Penalty Kick, but lost 0-2 at home to Wigan.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the full 90 as usual and won 2-0 at home over Manchester City.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played all of a scoreless draw at Aston Villa.

ENGLAND - Championship Division

Jay DeMerit - Watford - played all 90 in a 2-1 losing effort at Doncaster.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - came on as a sub in the 85th minute but they lost 2-0 at Exeter City.

Jon Paul Pitman - Wycombe - went the full 90 ans scored another goal but they lost 1-2 at home against Charlton.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich City - came on as a sub in the 83rd minute as they won big 0-5 at Colchester United.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - played the whole match but lost 1-2 at home to Bochum.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - started but came out after 54 minutes as they lost at home 0-3 to Hertha.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Matt Taylor - Frankfurt - came on as a sub in the 56th minute, but they got drilled 5-0 at Duisburg.

GREECE - Super League

Eddie Johnson - Aris - came on as a sub in the 78t minute to help preserve a 0-1 road win at Giannina.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kaslauskus - Helmond Sport - went the full 90 as they won easily 4-1 at home over BV Veendam.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Maurice Edu - Rangers - played the entire match as they beat Hamliton 0-1 on the road.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE RUMORS

Soccer 365 says Carlos Bocanegra could be headed to Paris St Germain St Etienne. [Thanks to Bill for the correction - Being a cretin myself, I get those Saints mixed up all the time.]

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

The new season kicked off this past weekend. And Herculez Gomez made his debut for Puebla.

dN

MEXICO - Primera Division Clausura

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the distance as they won 0-1 at Puebla.

Herculez Gomez - Puebla - came on as a sub in the 52nd minute but they lost 0-1 at home to UANL.

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - Came off the bench in the 61st minute as they opened the season winning 3-0 at home over Estudiantes Tecos.

MEXICO

Cuauhtemoc Blanco made his debut for the Red Sharks of Veracruz on Saturday and they got drilled 4-0 at Irapuato, whose team nickname is The Strawberry Lashers, I kid you not.

ENGLAND

Barney Ronay of the Guardian gives us Five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

dN

The Observer looks at the working relationship between Aston Villa's American owner Randy Lerner and the team's manager Martin O'Neill.

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (after 21 games)

48 Chelsea

47 Manchester United (after 22 games)

45 Arsenal

38 Tottenham

38 Manchester City

36 Aston Villa

dN

LEAGUE CUP - Semifinals

1st Leg - Matches & Scores:

-Tue Jan 19

Manchester City v Manchester United

2nd Leg - Matches & Scores:

-Wed Jan 20

Aston Villa v Blackburn (1-0)

-Wed Jan 27

Manchester United v Manchester City

SPAIN

Phil Ball of ESPN Soccernet reports on a potential new star being born in La Liga - Sergio Canales of Racing Santander. And a round up of the rest of the league.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Bilbao knocking the stuff out of Real Madrid, and the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

dN

Top La Liga Team Standings (after 18 games)

46 Barcelona

41 Real Madrid

38 Valencia

33 Mallorca

31 Deportivo La Coruna

30 Sevilla

30 Athletic Bilbao

dN

COPA DEL REY - Quarterfinals

1st Leg

-Wed Jan 20

Deportivo La Coruna v Sevilla

Mallorca v Getafe

Atletico Madrid v Celta Vigo

Racing Santander v Osasuna

2nd Leg

-Wed Jan 27

Sevilla v Deportivo La Coruna

Getafe v Mallorca

Celta Vigo v Atletico Madrid

Osasuna v Racing Santander

ITALY

Paulo Bandini of the Guardian on the strong re-entrance into Serie A for Luca Toni at Roma, and the rest of the weekend in the top Italian flight.

dN

If Milan win their game in hand they could be back within 3 points of the leaders.

dN

Roma jump up to #3! While Juve tumble to #5!

dN

Top Serie A Team Standings (after 20 games)

46 Inter

40 Milan (after 19 games)

35 Roma

34 Napoli

33 Juventus

31 Palermo

FRANCE

Top Ligue 1 Team Standings (after 20 games)

44 Bordeaux

37 Lille

36 Montpellier

33 Marseille

33 Lyon

33 Monaco

33 Auxerre

GERMANY

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on the biggest overachievers in the Bundesliga - Eintracht Frankfurt (7th place) - and the rest of the league from the past weekend's games.

dN

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (after 18 games)

38 Bayer Leverkusen

37 Schalke

36 Bayern Munich

34 Hamburg

33 Dortmund

ENDERS

I had a guy from England send me a bitter email asking me to stop referring to the Engligh Premier League "the EPL." He suggested I use Premiership or Barclay's Premier League. I asked him what he called the Scottish Premier League. He responded, begrudgingly, "the SPL." End of story. Poser. Hooray Beer.
