It's Day 355 of 2017.

ICYMI: MLS announced that Nashville will be joining the league in the next few years.

The Wilf family who own the Minnesota Vikings NFL team have bought a piece of the new MLS Nashville team. By Andy Greder for the St Paul Pioneer Press.

Thankfully they didn't get their hands on the Minnesota MLS team. We dodged a bullet there.

dN

A group of people are working very hard to create a new model for a 3rd division in American soccer, and Peter Wilt is at the wheel of the company truck that is moving fast and searching for new routes constantly. By Chris Kivlehan for Midfield Press.

There is a lot to consume in this article:

Short background on NISA.

Update to NISA plans.

Interview with NISA president Peter Wilt (Wilt is a friend of du Nord and always a very interesting interview - well worth your time)

dN

Is 2017 a turning point for women's soccer worldwide? This is a very good argument saying it is. By Julie Foudy for ESPNW.

dN

The 2018 MLS player du Nord du Not list

(64 players currently in MLS that I don't want to see on the Minnesota United roster in 2018)

dN

Tap Water: du Nord Music Mix Vol 150 (download + extract)

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Des Moines Menace head coach John Pascarella joins Minnesota as the new goalkeeper coach.

Jerome Thiesson gains recognition for his play at right fulback last season. (Rated 5th best in the league.) By Ridge Mahoney for Soccer America.

dN

MLS

Miguel Almiron of Atlanta tells, in his own translated words, what his first season was like in MLS. And the rest of his life story too. For the Players Tribune.

A look at the practice facility and small stadium Real Salt Lake is building for all their teams to use. By Megan Webb and Lucas Muller for RSL Soapbox.

dN

NWSL

How ownership of Real Salt Lake went from nothing to everything in owning a NWSL team in just 15 days. By Richard Farley for Four Four Two.

dN

MEXICO - COPA MX

Final

-Thu Dec 21

Monterrey v Pachuca - 8:50pm CT on Univ Deportes

dN

WORLDWIDE

A list of the 100 best footballers in the world for 2017. From The Guardian.

Nearing the top: #100 - #11

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S TOP LEAGUES

Weekend Schedule:

-Fri Dec 22

Arsenal v Liverpool

Espanyol v Atletico Madrid

-Sat Dec 23

Real Madrid v Barcelona

Everton Chelsea

Sassuolo v Inter

Juventus v Roma

Man City v Bournemouth

Leicester v Man United

Milan v Atalanta

Napoli v Sampdoria

Burnley v Tottenham

Valencia v Villarreal

The Bird Is The Word
