It's Day 277 of 2017.

The Voting Booth is now open:

The Dark Clouds End Of Year Awards ballot for Minnesota United.

dN

Remember: Holding the World Cup in Qatar is still a blight on humanity. By Jonathan Liew for the Independent.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Results:

-Tue Oct 3

Atlanta United 2-3 Minnesota - MU goals by Danladi, Ramirez + Molino

My MNUFC Notes:

Game highlights [VIDEO]

That sure tasted sweet.

Danladi, Ramirez (off the bench) and Molino got the goals, with Hot Boy getting the game winner.

Danladi started up top.

Taylor started at left fullback.

First loss in the new stadium for Atl.

And through 6 home games Atl was allowing just .5 goals per game.

So 3 goals by Minnesota was a big night by any standards.

Shuttleworth saved the Loons bacon 3 times in the first half to keep the game tied. It was all Atlanta in the first 45.

Danladi scored another rocket goal to get the second half started.

And Atl went down to 10 men when their cleared out Danladi in the 60th min.

But despite the setback Atl took the lead on 2 goals capitalizing on MU defending blunders by Martin first and then Calvo.

At one point late in the game MU finally realized they had an extra player and were allowed to bring on another attacker - What minute was that? 86th.

Guess what happened? Minnesota offensive explosion.

Goal in the 90th by Ramirez, deflecting a Nicholson shot.

Goal 6 minutes into 7 minutes of stoppage time by Molino, heading a Thiesson cross.

At the end Minnesota had Calvo and Taylor in the center with Warner in front of them. Then in the attack it was Ibson and Molino in the middle, Nicholson and Thiesson behind Finlay and Ibarra on the outside. And Ramirez up top. Beautiful.

Good game: Shuttleworth, Molino, Danladi, Ramirez

OK game: Ibarra, Thiesson, Nicholson, Warner, Ibson, Finlay

Bad game: Taylor, Kallman, Calvo, Martin

Attendance: 43185 - this blows my mind.

A not so good incident happened near the 60th minute when the referee went to the sideline to watch a video review and was hit in the head by a thrown bottle containing liquid. He did not appear injured.

Media:

Match report. By Andy Greder for Pioneer Press.

Match report. By Megan Ryan for Star Tribune.

Danladi left the game with a banged up leg (or two?) But has been seeing increasing playing time as the season crescendos. By Ryan.

The final three games will mean a lot for next seasons roster. By Ryan.

Schedule:

-Sat Oct 7

Minnesota v Sporting Kansas City - 7pm CT on Ch 29 and UniMas

Calvo, Taylor, Molino, Boxall and JVenegas will not be available Saturday due to international matches. Minn will have a very thin bench.

And who plays defense? Thiesson and Kallman with Greenspan and Jome or Davis most likely.

Looking back to that first road win of the season, Aug 26 at Chicago, the Loons record is 4 wins, 2 losses and 1 tie. Quite impressive.

dN

Moon: du Nord Music Mix Vol 141 (download + extract)

dN

USMNT WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Benny Feilhaber gets another shot with the big time. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Q + A with Matt Besler. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

The USA is hoping for a true home field advantage in Orlando. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Weighty days ahead for the USMNT. By Grant Wahl for Sports Illustrated.

Schedule:

-Fri Oct 6

USA v Panama - 6pm CT on ESPN2

Orlando City Stadium, Orlando

-Tue Oct 10

Trinidad + Tobago v USA - 7pm CT on beIN

Ato Boldon Stadium - Couva

I will be at Town Hall Brewery in Minneapolis for USA v Panama on Friday night and T+T v USA next Tuesday night.

dN

USMNT U17 World Cup

The tournament begins Friday morning.

Group stage schedule:

-Fri Oct 6

USA v India (host country) - 9:30am CT on FS2 + Universo

Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium - New Delhi

dN

MLS

RSL had to figure out how to rebuild their team after their 3 principal architects abandon ship. They seem to be on their way finally. By Sam Stejskal for Four Four Two.

Week 31 Schedule/Results:

-Tue Oct 3

Atlanta 2-3 Minnesota

-Sat Oct 7

New York RB v Vancouver

Minnesota v KC

Colorado v Dallas

dN

US SOCCER

The USL stakes it claim as the countries 2nd division and ask US Soccer for almost no exemptions on compliance. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

They have along what from where they were 10 years ago as bumbling organization. (Sounds like a description of NASL today.)

The following cities have been DROPPED by US Soccer in their bid to host World Cup 2026 with Canada and Mexico: Birmingham, Cleveland, Indianapolis, Jacksonville, New Orleans, Pittsburgh, San Antonio, Ottawa, Regina

Minneapolis still in the running.

The Bird Is The Word
