It's Day 284 of 2016.

Huge congrats to the Western New York Flash on winning the 2016 NWSL championship.

-Sun Oct 9

Washington Spirit 2-2 Western New York Flash - WNYF wins 3-2 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

The 90 minutes ended tied 1-1 with goals scored in the 8th and 13th minutes.

Washington scored 1 minute into Added Extra Time to take the lead.

Western scored 4 minutes into Stoppage Time of the AET.

Crystal Dunn scored both goals for Washington.

Wow:

Amazing feat: @WNYFlash, now winners in four different leagues: W-League, WPS, WPSL Elite and now @NWSL.

— Paul Kennedy (@pkedit) October 10, 2016

The dichotomy of Victor Montagliani - President of CONCACAF:

The Canadian leader of CONCACAF has two new proposals that completely contradict each other. By Rob Harris of the AP.

1) World Cup qualifying needs to be revamped because the Hexagon is too exclusionary.

2) Champions League needs to be revamped because the group stage has too many empty stadiums and poor facilities in use.

Qualifying gets boiled down to the best which draws big crowds and has powerful games.

Champions League gets played on some horse pastures with terrible teams that should be no where near the competition.

Seems to me that he wants to add the bad part of the Champions League to World Cup qualifying and somehow that will make it "better."

I am willing to bet that his #1 compulsion for expanding WC qualifying is to get Canada a better shot at reaching the World Cup. I'm not kidding.

Splitting up teams like Costa Rica, USA and Mexico into separate qualifying groups just waters down the commercial package not build it up. Those are the primo games that we all want to watch.

dN

Today I begin my campaign for Brent Kallman for NASL Best XI. The centerback has been fantastic!

As the #1 goal scorer in the league Christian Ramirez is also a NASL Best XI

dN

My NASL Notes:

Edmonton has clinched a playoff spot joining Indy and New York in the post season. There is only 1 playoff position left and its gonna be a fight to the end for the last place.

With a Wednesday night home game Carolina has a chance to grab the #4 spot from Minnesota. RailHawks would need a win to do that.

Miami hosts Tampa on Friday night and a win by either team would put them in front of Minnesota + Carolina too.

And believe it or not OKC is in the playoff chase. Just 3 points behind Minnesota with a game in hand

dN

NASL Week 25 Results:

-Sat Oct 8

Puerto Rico 0-0 Minnesota

Miami 0-1 OKC

-Sun Oct 9

Carolina v Ft Lauderdale

Ottawa v New York

Edmonton v Tampa Bay

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#56 New York (3 games left)

#50 Edmonton (4 games left)

*45 Indy (5 games left)

38 Minnesota (+4 GD) (3 games left)

----

37 Tampa Bay (+1 GD) (4 games left)

37 Carolina (-8 GD) (4 games left)

36 Miami (0 GD) (4 games left)

35 OKC (0 GD) (4 games left)

*Won Spring Season, automatically in playoffs

#Clinched a top 4 finish and a playoff spot

NASL Week 26 Schedule:

-Wed Oct 12

Carolina v OKC

Jacksonville v Indy

Ft Lauderdale v Edmonton

-Fri Oct 14

Miami v Tampa Bay

-Sat Oct 15

Ft Lauderdale v Puerto Rico

Jacksonville v New York

Indy v Carolina

Minnesota v Edmonton

-Sun Oct 16

OKC v Ottawa

dN

USA Men's National Team friendlies:

USA wins dull but historic game in Cuba on Friday.

Chris Wondolowski brought life to the match as a half time sub. He was very active and then scored the first goal and set up the 2nd. Great game for him.

Green was also very attentive and positive throughout the match. His lack of speed is a worry though.

Ethan Horvath got his debut cap and made some nice saves to grab a clean sheet. (He was helped out twice by the post too.)

Fabian Johnson was particularly bad at left fullback. Man oh man do I never want to see him there again. But I fear we will.

John Brooks and Bobby Wood did not bathe themselves in glory either.

No one else shined or failed either way. A lot of 5's in the match ratings.

After the game 9 players were released from the USA roster: Brooks, Cameron, Chandler, Horvath, Johnson, Pulisic, Morris, Wondolowski and Wood.

On Sat 7 players were added to the USA roster for Tue game in DC: Kellyn Acosta, Juan Agudelo, Matt Besler, Terrence Boyd, Bill Hamid, Michael Orozco and Tim Parker.

-Fri Oct 7

Cuba 0-2 USA - USA goals by Chris Wondolowski + Julian Green.

-Tue Oct 11

USA v New Zealand - RFK Stadium, Washington DC - 7:00pm CT on on ESPN + UniMas

Here is the Roster for the NZ game:

G: David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes, Bill Hamid - DC United, William Yarbrough - Leon

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Steve Birnbaum - DC United, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Michael Orozco - Tijuana, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Perry Kitchen - Heart Of Midlothian, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Danny Williams - Reading

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Terrence Boyd - RB Leipzig, Julian Green - Bayern Munich, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

dN

Terrence Boyd is back after a 2 year fight with knee injuries. (He has had 4 surgery's.) He is in DC with Team USA right now and back training full time with Leipzig, getting minutes with their reserves. Hopefully the first team is nearing. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

Lynden Gooch could make his debut with the USA senior team after impressing with the US junior teams and his club Sunderland. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

Giovanni Dos Santos is back with Mexico for the first time in over a year as they prepare for World Cup qualifying in November with friendlies in October. The coach Juan Carlos Osorio is under a lot of scrutiny. By Tom Marshall of ESPNFC.

dN

One MLS game in Week 31:

-Sat Oct 8

Houston 2-3 Colorado

MLS Supporters Shield:

Colorado was left for dead in this race a month ago and now here they are right on the tail of Dallas with the only real chance to challenge.

56 Dallas (2 games left) (1.75 ppg) (16 wins) (+9 gd)

54 Colorado (3 games left) (1.74 ppg) (14 wins) (+7 gd)

51 New York Red Bulls (2 games left) (1.59 ppg) (14 wins) (+14 gd)

51 New York City (2 games left) (1.59 ppg) (14 wins) (+4 gd)

dN

Salt Lake has signed forward Yura Movsisyan to a new long term contract. He had been on loan from Russian club Spartak Moscow. He has scored 9 goals in 27 games this season.

dN

USL Playoffs - Quarterfinals schedule:

WEST

-Sat Oct 8

Vancouver Whitecaps 2 3-2 Oklahoma City Energy

-Sun Oct 9

Swope Park Rangers 2-1 Orange County Blues

EAST

-Fri Oct 7

New York Red Bulls II 3-3 Rochester Rhinos - NYRBII advances 5-4 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

-Sat Oct 8

Louisville 1-0 Charleston Battery

Semifinals schedule:

WEST

-Sat Oct 15

Swope Park Rangers v Vancouver Whitecaps 2

EAST

-Sun Oct 16

New York Red Bulls II v Louisville

dN

In case you didn't get a chance to listen to Bob Bradley's excellent introductory press conference at Swansea City here is a recap. By Stuart James of the Guardian.

A few more words from Bradley after the press conference ended. By Rob Harris of the AP.

And the word from at least 1 of the core players at Swansea is that Bob Bradley has had an instant impact in training. By Mat Davies of South Wales Evening Post.

dN

World Cup qualifiers from around the planet this week. Schedules and results.

dN

In UEFA six teams who have played 2 games still have perfect records with 6 points. (Azerbaijan, Belgium, England, Germany, Greece, Scotland and Switzerland.)

But none of the teams that have played 3 games still have a perfect record and 9 points. None.

dN

Dutch trade unions working on behalf of foreign workers in Qatar are suing FIFA in Swiss courts for workers abuse. By Owen Gibson of the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
