It's Day 279 of 2016.

An interview with Bob Bradley on Day 1 at his new club. [VIDEO] Via the Swansea City website.

If you look at the Bob Bradley hiring from an unbiased perspective you can see how it is a gamble for everyone involved. By Simon Evans of the Washington Post.

dN

There is an absolutely huge game for Minnesota and Tampa tonight in the NASL.

The 4th and final playoff spot is on the line.

The game is in Tampa.

Minnesota leads Tampa on goal differential.

Minnesota is without starting centerback Damien Lowe who is with Jamaica for a Caribbean Cup qualifier. (He will miss the Saturday game in Puerto Rico too.)

Tampa has had 2 wins and 3 draws in the last 5 games.

Minnesota has lost 4 in a row.

Jeb Brovsky is out of the Minnesota line up due to injury.

Gigantic Rowdies centerback Stefan Antonijevic is out due to injury as well.

Game time temperature will be mid-80s and very humid aka Florida.

NASL Mid-Week 25 Schedule:

-Wed Oct 5

Tampa Bay v Minnesota - 6:30pm CT on My29 (Twin Cities) + One World Sports.

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#55 New York (4 games left)

47 Edmonton (5 games left)

*45 Indy (5 games left)

36 Minnesota (+4 GD) (5 games left)

----

36 Tampa Bay (+2 GD) (6 games left)

36 Miami (+1 GD) (5 games left)

34 Carolina (-11 GD) (5 games left)

*Won Spring Season, automatically in playoffs

#Clinch a top 4 finish and a playoff spot

dN

A couple nights ago Paul Demko told me - "You gotta hear LA Salami." Huh? I assumed it was a new hip hop guy. Nope. African-Asian kid from London. Who sounds like Bob Dylan, Neil Young, Joni Mitchell and Mason Jennings. He will be famous. I have no doubt.

Day To Day (Another Lazy Sunday session) [VIDEO]

Iggy Pop: "I don't wanna belong to the Glam people, the Alternative people. To any of it. I don't wanna be a punk. I just wanna be."

Nonspecific: du Nord Music Mix Vol 99 (download + extract)

I think Jeff Van Gundy is one of the more interesting people in the NBA to listen to. Here he is discussing violence against women. My admiration for him just leaped up another step. These are important words:

Transcript of Jeff Van Gundy and Mark Jones talking about the Derrick Rose case on the ESPN Knicks-Rockets broadcast pic.twitter.com/CCLt7sIImP

— Sean Highkin (@highkin) October 5, 2016

dN

A breakdown of the USMNT roster for the Cuba friendly on Friday. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

The return of Sasha Kljestan to the USMNT could be a positive sign for other players who have felt that their national team career had stalled out. By Graham Parker of ESPNFC.

dN

USMNT upcoming friendlies:

-Fri Oct 7

Cuba v USA - Estadio Pedro Marrero, Havana - 3:00pm CT on ESPN2 + UniMas

-Tue Oct 11

USA v New Zealand - RFK Stadium, Washington DC - 7:00pm CT on on ESPN + UniMas

Here is the Roster for the Cuba game:

G: David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes, Ethan Horvath - Molde, William Yarbrough - Leon

D: Steve Birnbaum - DC United, John Brooks - Hertha Berlin, Geoff Cameron - Stoke City, Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Fabian Johnson - Moenchengladbach, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana), Michael Bradley - Toronto, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Perry Kitchen - Heart Of Midlothian, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Christian Pulisic - Dortmund, Danny Williams - Reading

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Julian Green - Bayern Munich, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes, Bobby Wood - Hamburger

dN

Atlanta United will play the first part of next season at Bobby Dodd Stadium at Georgia Tech. They hope their proper home at the Mercedes Benz dome will be ready by the end of June.

The most successful youth set up in MLS is the FC Dallas academy teams run by Luchi Gonzalez, the guy I want to be a coach at Minnesota United one day soon. By Scott Sidway of MLSsoccer.com.

Five important topics of the moment in MLS. By Steve Davis at fcdallas.com.

You know it, you love it, Ale Moreno's Weekly MLS Awards. [VIDEO] Via ESPNFC.

Air travel for MLS is one of the most taxing elements on a teams success. The LA Galaxy put up with a lot, and chartered flights could solve most of this. By Kevin Baxter of the LA Times.

Houston, Seattle and Vancouver will all fly over 40k miles this season.

To avoid image and perception problems LA coach Bruce Arena... "has asked his players not to wear any Galaxy gear to the airport." That has got to be the exact opposite of what MLS wants from its "ambassadors."

dN

Born in 1999, American Nick Taitague has been named the best American player born that year by an English newspaper. He plays for Schalke as an amateur and will be offered a pro contract on his 18th birthday. By Luis Miguel Echegaray of the Guardian. (scroll down to find Taitague)

dN

There is talk of FIFA expanding the World Cup to 48 teams, from the current 32. The top 16 would be seeded for the group stage while teams 17-48 would be paired up and play a 1-off game to see which 16 of them advance to the group stage.

Basically all FIFA is trying to do is raise the broadcast fees to 16 more countries, but then eliminate many of them immediately. And for the 16 who don't advance they will have to spend the same amount of money to get the team prepared but lose out on any chance at a pay off. Its a blatant money grab for FIFA, and a waste of time for everyone else. It will not bring a better tournament for the fans.

The Bird Is The Word
