It's Day 285 of 2016.

It took Belgium 8.1 seconds from kickoff to score against Gibraltar in UEFA World Cup qualifying. Christian Benteke got the goal. Belgium won 0-6.

dN

USA Mens National Team friendly:

-Tue Oct 11

USA v New Zealand - RFK Stadium, Washington DC - 7:00pm CT on on ESPN + UniMas

Here is the Roster for the NZ game:

G: David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes, Bill Hamid - DC United, William Yarbrough - Leon

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Steve Birnbaum - DC United, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Michael Orozco - Tijuana, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Perry Kitchen - Heart Of Midlothian, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Danny Williams - Reading

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Terrence Boyd - RB Leipzig, Julian Green - Bayern Munich, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

dN

A preview of tonight's game. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

Former DC United midfielder Perry Kitchen returns to the nations capital tonight with the USA national team for the first time since he left last winter for Scotland. By Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

Who plays for the USMNT tonight and why. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

With no club playing time (and a bleak horizon for that) this is a chance for Julian Green, a surprise call up for sure, to build on a good game in Cuba. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

Jurgen Klinsmann said that Bill Hamid is "No. 6, 7" on the USMNT goalkeeper depth chart.

-We know Hamid is the most talented of the future keepers, so is this a challenge from Klinmann. Sure feels like it. Hamid's constant injury issues don't help his cause either.

Are these two friendlies in October for the USMNT a complete waste of time? There are legit reasons beyond just ugly games for these to go away. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

With just 10,000 ticket sold for tonight in Wash DC the fans seem to be answering Yes.

dN

Lets check to see if I am a dope or a wizard. At best I am part both.

du Nord Futbol 2016 MLS final standings prediction:

EAST

1 Toronto

2 Red Bull New York

3 Orlando City

4 Montreal Impact

5 Columbus Crew

6 New England Revolution

----

7 Chicago Fire

8 DC United

9 New York City

10 Philadelphia Union

WEST

1 Vancouver Whitecaps

2 Dallas

3 Portland Timbers

4 LA Galaxy

5 Sporting Kansas City

6 Seattle Sounders

----

7 Colorado Rapids

8 San Jose Earthquakes

9 Houston Dynamo

10 Real Salt Lake

Wrong-O:

Hahahahaha. Vancouver #1 in the West. Hahahahaha.

Real Salt Lake, last place, really?!?!

Orlando was not the 2nd year team to succeed like I thought, it was NYCFC in a big way.

Colorado out of the playoffs. Most people got that wrong.

Picking last year's finalists Portland and Columbus to a least make the playoffs wasn't the stretch it seems now.

Not Bad:

Toronto and Red Bulls at the top in the East.

Dallas near the top in the West.

San Jose, Houston and Chicago all with a swing and a miss.

dN

Erick Thohir + Jason Levien have completed the transaction to buy DC United outright, having purchased the stake Will Chang held.

Thohir also owns a portion of Inter Milan.

Levien also owns a portion of Swansea City.

dN

MLS team's youth development programs have been changing behind the scenes in a important ways. By Andrew Wiebe of MLSsoccer.

dN

Let's check in on the building process at Atlanta United via the team's soccer director Paul McDonough. By Doug Roberson of the Atlanta Journal Constitution.

Not that these things really matter in the end, but...:

By comparison Atlanta currently has 4 people at the top of the on-field operation while Minnesota has 3. The real difference is that 3 of them are working on the roster, while Minnesota has just 1.

I have to admit that I am surprised Minnesota hasn't brought in any people with MLS expansion experience to help in this transition, especially since so many of their employees have a big job right in front of them with the current team in NASL.

dN

Ben Fisk of Edmonton named NASL Player Of The Week.

dN

There was a NASL owners summit two weeks ago. So what went on at the meetings? By Doug Zimmerman of SF Gate.

dN

Tommy Meyer of USL club Swope Park Rangers (KC) has been given a 6 game suspension. Meyer was red carded in the league playoff Quarterfinals after committing a "studs-to-the-groin" foul on Akwafei Ajeakwa of the Orange County Blues. He got 3 games for the nasty foul and 3 more for "making contact" with a referee in the aftermath.

dN

Former Costa Rican football federation president, plus a FIFA + CONCACAF executive, Eduardo Li pleaded guilty in a US Federal Court to racketeering and other crimes as part of the FIFA scandal. By Rebecca Ruiz of the New York Times.

He is the 18th person found guilty so far.

dN

Do you wanna like the Premier League lifestyle? Meet the guy who helps the pros do just that. By Rory Smith of the New York Times.

dN

Does any one still care about the plight of Mario Baolotelli. He just might be coming around. By Amy Lawrence of the Guardian.

dN

Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabeu stadium is going to get a $440 Million update including a retractable roof!

I would like to know their plans for playing home games during the construction.

dN

World Cup qualifiers around the globe this week. Schedules and results.

The Bird Is The Word
