-ADDITION: Here is a sight to see! Check out this video from the Metrostarts v DC United match played last Saturday night in the Meadowlands. At the 3:45 mark you will see something amazing that you will not see from any other big sport in America. DC United's fantastic midfielder Christian Gomez had to miss the game due to yellow card accumulation, so what does he do? He goes and sits with the DC United traveling supporters and bangs the drums with 'em through out the match! I love that guy even more now!

-Jonathan Spector has been added to the Team USA roster for the WCQ's.

-Juve beat Inter 2-0 in the first big Serie A match of the year. I was sad. Trezeguet and Nedved scored for the Old Lady, who are now 6-0-0 to start the season sitting in 1st place. Inter sit back in 5th place with 12 points from 4 wins, 2 losses, and 0 draws.

-A Danny Callif feature from the US National Soccer Players site.

-Phil Ball unravels the serious nature of Racing Santander v Alaves. It's a big deal! Feel the Flack

-Real Madrid beat bottom of the tank Mallorca 4-0 with the Brazilians getting all the goals: Ronaldo got the first, Roberto Carlos bagged the second and third & Julio Baptista finished the thrashing. What? No Robinho? Did they do The Cockroach dance again? No! They did the Penguin!

-The hideous Seattle Sounders won their 3rd First Division title on Saturday night over Richmond. Rich scored first with a great long distance volley, but Seattle cranked up the pressure and finally equalized. Seattle kept up the pressure, but could not finish off Richmond until pk's which Seattle won 4-3. Boooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!

-Mexico smacked Brazil in the mouth 3-0 to win the U17 World Championship! Arriba Beer!

-Speaking of ass kickings..... Chelsea demolished Liverpool 4-1 in league play. The most boring league in the world sees Chelsea's lead already at 9 points (24 from 8 matches). Charlton and Tottenham both have 15 points, good for 2nd place, which might as well be 15th place for how far back they are. Man U, Bolton & Man City have 14 points for 4th place.

-The old guy, who is a member of AARP already, Preki, is now going to retire from a great career. I got to see him score his greatest goal, in the 1-0 win over Brazil during the Gold Cup. Good luck amigo!

-Team USA have launched their training camp today for the last two rounds of World Cup Qualifying. The matches are next Saturday in Costa Rica, and a week from Wednesday in Boston v Panama. The roster will be announced this afternoon. So no more speculating from me.

-The skies are clearing over MLS post-season races. Only 2 weeks left now (several teams will play 3 matches in that time). With the West almost completely settled, the East is your full-action center. Chicago is nearly secured, leaving KC, Metro & long-long-long shot Columbus fighting for the last spot. This past weekend scores:

Columbus 0-1 Chivas

Metro 1-4 DC

New Eng 0-2 San Jose

KC 0-1 Chicago

Colorado 2-1 Salt Lake

LA 2-1 Dallas

So with KC, Metro & 'lumbus all losing, nothing has changed in the East race. Stay tuned.

Single Table:

60 San Jose *

55 New England *

50 DC United *

48 Chicago

45 Los Angeles *

43 FC Dallas *

43 Kansas City

40 Metrostars

40 Colorado *

34 Columbus

19 Real Salt Lake XX

17 Chivas USA XX

* = offically IN playoffs

XX = officially OUT of playoffs

Leading Scorers:

16 Taylor Twellman - NEW E

14 Jaime Moreno - DC

12 Jeff Cunningham - COLO

11 Landycakes Donovan - LA

11 Herc Gomez - LA

Wednesday games:

Dallas v Columbus - Dallas fighting for playoff seeding, but Columbus has to win in hopes of catching others for playoff hopes.

Chicago v Metrostars - Chicago fighting for playoff seeding, but Metrostars has to win in hopes of catching others for playoff hopes.

Colorado v Chivas - Colorado fighting for playoff seeding, and Chivas is done.

Salt Lake v DC - Salt Lake is done, DC fighting for playoff seeding.

-Eredivisie scores:

RBC Roosendaal 1-2 NAC Breda

ADO The Hague 2-1 RKC Waalwijk - John O'Brien still hurt.

Roda JC Kerkrade 3-2 Vitesse Arnhem

SC Heerenveen 2-3 PSV Eindhoven - but DaMarcus Beasley was pulled early after injuring his hamstring.

AZ Alkmaar 3-2 NEC Nijmegen

FC Groningen 2-0 Willem II Tilburg

FC Utrecht 3-1 Feyenoord - Cory Gibbs has now started light training after knee surgery. They could really use his great defense.

Heracles Almelo 0-4 FC Twente Enschede

Sparta Rotterdam 1-2 Ajax

-In African World Cup Qualifying Liberia were destroyed 5-0 by Zambia

-Claudio Reyna tweaked his neck, and missed the Man City match this weekend. His club beat poor Everton 2-0.

Serie A scores:

Chievo Verona 0-0 Treviso

Udinese 3-0 Lazio

Ascoli 3-1 Parma

Fiorentina 3-2 Livorno

Lecce 3-0 Cagliari

Messina 1-4 Sampdoria

AC Milan 2-1 Reggina

Palermo 2-2 Empoli

AS Roma 2-3 Siena

Juventus 2-0 Inter Milan

-From the Houston Chronicle - Glenn Davis examines Houston's possibility as an MLS city

-La Liga results:

Barcelona 2-2 Zaragoza

Getafe 2-1 Valencia

Villarreal 3-1 Athletic Bilbao

Sevilla 1-1 Espanyol

Cadiz 1-1 Celta Vigo

Deportivo La Coruna 0-1 Osasuna

Real Sociedad 1-1 Real Betis

Racing Santander 1-2 Alaves

Real Madrid 4-0 Mallorca

Malaga 0-2 Atletico Madrid

-Reading beat Sheffield United 2-1 and now standing at the top of the Coca-Cola Championship heap. CORRECTION: the magnificent Incendiarymind of Footcer Socblog has stepped up to show us the light, and make it known that Reading is still, despite the win, 3 points behind Sheff U and in 2nd place. The Reading win also means Luton are now just 6 points back of the top spot, sitting in 3rd place.

-Stevie Cherundolo did not play this weekend because of still-lasting effects of the knee injury he suffered in the Gold Cup. His team Hannover drew Duisburg 1-1.

-Our main man Kasey Keller bagged another clean sheet for Monchengladbach as they beat Mainz 1-0 for their 3rd win in a row.
