It's Day 131 of 2016.

After all the fallout from the mess on the field for Columbus Crew (see my full breakdown yesterday) the team has decided to suspend forward Kei Kamara for this weekends game.

Coach Gregg Berhalter was quote today by Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch: "Kei speaking out against a teammate is unacceptable. We have zero tolerance for that."

And the rumor mill is on fire with talk of the Crew shopping Kamara to any and all takers. But the MLS window for roster moves ends tomorrow - Wed May 11. Not much time to move. Someone might get a bargain on a proven goal scorer.

I gotta say, this makes the whole Columbus organization look pretty immature.

Which team could use a goal scorer badly? Let's see: Philly, DC, Seattle, and more than anyone Chicago. Or as one Twitter follower suggested: Dallas.

dN

Liga MX Clausura Laguilla Quarterfinals start tomorrow night:

1st Leg

-Wed May 11

Tigres (8) v Monterrey (1)

Morelia (6) v Leon (3)

-Thu May 12

Santos Laguna (7) v Pachuca (2)

Guadalajara (5) v America (4)

-2nd Leg games on 14 + 15.

dN

American midfielder Perry Kitchen has been a bright spot during a good season for Hearts. By Craig Fowler of the Scotsman. Thanks to Martyn for the link.

dN

FIFA has announced the process for bidding to host the 2026 World Cup. (Article also includes a few pieces of news, aka FIFA house keeping.)

The procedure is in 4 phases beginning now and concluding with the announcement of the host country in May 2020.

dN

The end of an institution, and of a mind set. Other Music record store in Manhattan is closing. By Joe Coscarelli of the New York Times.

Probably the best record store I have ever shopped in. Much respect to Chris Vanderloo + Josh Madell - two brilliant music minds who always took big reaches to find the best music for us fanaticos.

This one hurts me personally. I can't tell you how many times I shopped in that store and left with things I knew nothing about, but was always blown away by when I got home and put it on the stereo.

dN

Chioma Ubogagu of Houston Dash named NWSL Player Of The Week.

Sammy Ochoa of Tulsa Roughnecks named USL Player Of The Week.

Nana Attakora of Fort Lauderdale Strikers named NASL Player Of The Week.

Ignacio Piatti of Montreal Impact named MLS Player Of The Week.

dN

The very best MLS Weekly Awards show. [VIDEO] By Alejandro Moreno of ESPNFC.

dN

Do any of you remember a guy named Frank Lampard? If you recall NYC FC made a big deal out of signing him. But then he didn't come to preseason training cuz he wanted to keep playing at Manchester City, where he sat on the bench. Yeah, he's injured. By Andrew Das of the New York Times.

He has taken the field 10 times in the teams 44 game history. And for this he got a 2 year contract worth $12 million.

If you know where Frank Lampard is can you please notify the proper authorities.

dN

Coming up tomorrow:

MLS Week 11 (5 midweek games)

-Wed May 11

Philadelphia Union v LA Galaxy

Colorado Rapids v Sporting Kansas City

Dallas v Portland Timbers

Vancouver Whitecaps v Chicago Fire

San Jose Earthquakes v Houston Dynamo

The Bird Is The Word
