STARTERS

Portland Timbers fired head coach John Spencer today. He has been replaced on an interim basis by General Manager Gavin Wilkinson.

-Unless there was a near unanimous melt down by players against the coach then this was a very stupid move mid-season. And to do it without a replacement lined up at this critical juncture of the season is fools gold. They simply don't have good enough players and that is all on Wilkinson.

-The rest of the coaching staff will remain intact this season, including our friend in football assistant Amos Magee.

-We will always have time for this gem from Spencer's time in Portland!

dN

Two of Liverpools summer friendlies in the USA will be broadcast on ESPN2.

-Liverpool v Roma from Fenway Park in Boston on Jul 25 at 6:30pm CT, and Liverpool v Tottenham from M+T Bank Stadium in Baltimore on Jul 28 at 12pm CT.

STORY OF THE DAY

Scott French of ESPN LA talks to Herculez Gomez as his Santos Laguna get ready for the new Liga MX Apertura season, and a successful recent run with the USA.

MINNESOTA STARS FC

Matches + Scores:

-Sat Jul 7

Minnesota Stars 0-2 Atlanta Silverbacks

Venue: National Sports Center Stadium

Oof da! A terrible Saturday night at Loch Ness-Upon-Blaine as our boys looked completely burned out while Atlanta were energized by a new high profile head coach to they gave everything for. A shitty night no doubt.

-Thu Jul 12

Minnesota Stars v Tampa Bay Rowdies

Venue: National Sports Center Stadium - Blaine MN

THE LAMAR HUNT US OPEN CUP

Coming Wednesday!

Semifinals

Matches and Scores:

-Wed Jul 11

Philadelphia Union v Sporting Kansas City - 6:30pm CT

Venue: PPL Park - Chester PA

Seattle Sounders FC v CD Chivas USA - 9:00pm CT

Venue: Starfire Sports Complex - Tukwila WA

dN

And here are the scenarios for hosting the Final on Aug 7 or 8:

Sporting Kansas City v Seattle Sounders FC

OR

Sporting Kansas City v CD Chivas USA

OR

Seattle Sounders FC v Philadelphia Union

OR

Philadelphia Union v CD Chivas USA

QUOTE OF THE DAY

On Saturday after I had the pleasure of meeting former USA great, current Fox Soccer commentator and current Atlanta Silverback head coach Eric Wynalda for an interview on an upcoming episode of The du Nord Futbol Show. The first words he spoke to me were, "Great to meet you. Wow, you're a lot bigger than I expected." Stay tuned.

DO YOU REALIZE

Michael Lewis at Newsday with more quotes on the possible new MLS stadium in Queens New York.

-Thanks to Bart for the link.

DID YOU KNOW?

The Scottish Football League will announce on Friday which league Rangers will resume life in after it was decided that they will NOT play in the Premier League next season.

-Most guesses are saying the First Division, which is technically the second division, one below the top Premier League.

WELL WELL WELL

Did you know that the Mexican Primera Division has a new name for the upcoming Apertura season. It will now be known as Liga MX.

-The federation will also re-introduce the Copa Mexico to be played in both the Apertura and Clausura seasons pitting 14 teams from Liga MX and 14 from the second division. They will play both group and knock out stages to determine a twice yearly cup champion.

Thanks to the great readers who provided me with so much info on the new birth for Mexican club soccer. We will have more on this subject from one great reader in the next day or two.

FACT OF THE DAY

The MLS All Star Game First 11 was announced on Sunday.

VIDEO OF THE DAY 1

Sporting Kansas City has USA captain Carlos Bocanegra on their TV post-game show Saturday night and they asked him about his future with Rangers etc. Is he headed to MLS?

-Ronald Blum of the Associated Press also talks to Bocanegra about his future.

VIDEO OF THE DAY 2

Some nice tifo from San Jose's 1906 Ultras for their game against LA at Stanford Stadium.

VIDEO OF THE DAY 3

Shawn Francis of The Offside Rules hooks us up with a trailer to a documentary film about Bob Bradley and his journey as head coach of the Egypt national team.

PICTURE OF THE DAY

Seeing Steve Zakuani make his return to the field for Seattle on Sunday after 15 months away was amazing. And the fact that it was against the team, Colorado Rapids, they were playing when he suffered that horrific broken leg was even more amazing. At the end of the game when he and Brian Mullan who delivered that hideous tackle embraced I found myself sitting on the coach at home silently applauding them. I was literally clapping my hands. Amazing scene.

MLS MATCHES AND SCORES

Week 18

Matches + Scores:

-Sat Jul 7

Sporting Kansas City 0-0 Houston Dynamo

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park

Atten: 19,307

Real Salt Lake 3-0 Portland Timbers - RSL goals all by Alvaro Saborio(1 via PK),

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium

Atten: 16,444

FC Dallas 0-0 San Jose Earthquakes

Venue: FC Dallas Stadium

Atten: 10,132

CD Chivas USA 0-0 Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Venue: The Home Depot Center

Atten: 11,659

Seattle Sounders FC v Colorado Rapids - SS goals by Alvaro Fernandez + Eddie Johnson. CR goal by Omar Cummings.

Venue: CenturyLink Field

Atten: 39,060

-Sun Jul 8

Chicago Fire SC 0-2 LA Galaxy - LAG goals both by Robbie Keane(1 via PK),

Venue: Toyota Park

Atten: 20,563

Philadelphia Union 3-0 Toronto FC - PU goals by Gabriel Gomez, Freddy Adu + Antoine Hoppenot.

Venue: PPL Park

Atten: 18,393

New England Revolution 2-0 New York Red Bulls - NER goals by Lee Nguyen + Jerry Bengtsen.

Venue: Gillette Stadium

Atten: 14,373

Montreal Impact 2-1 Columbus Crew - MI goals by Zarek Valentin + Patrice Bernier(PK). CC goal by Milovan Mirosevic.

Venue: Saputo Stadium

Atten: 15,118

MLS MATCH NOTES

EJECTIONS:

Ramiro Corrales - San Jose - 2 yellow cards

dN

Seattle put a critical end to their winless streak.

dN

Dallas did not, making it now 12 in a row without a win. The all time league record is 14.

dN

Watching Colorado find new ways to not mark runners on set pieces was eye opening. Do they work on this stuff at practice? Apparently not.

dN

Yes, Toronto was not fixed by getting a new head coach. They still need an entirely new and competent defense.

dN

It was only a gimme, but seeing Jerry Bengtson score in his debut must be a huge relief to New England fans and management after all the stiff strikers they have seen come and go since Taylor Twellman was felled by concussions.

dN

Let take a moment to boooooo real loud at Dallas and Chivas for failing so miserably on ticket sales this past weekend!

dN

Great attendance as usual in KC, Seattle and Philly. And big day for Chicago on Sunday with what looked to be a sellout.

MLS STANDINGS

EAST

33 DC United (+12)

33 Sporting Kansas City (+6)

31 New York Red Bulls (+5)

28 Chicago Fire SC (0)

25 Houston Dynamo (-2)

-----

22 New England Revolution (+2)

22 Columbus Crew (0)

21 Montreal Impact (-9)

17 Philadelphia Union (0)

10 Toronto FC (-15)

WEST

37 San Jose Earthquakes (+12)

36 Real Salt Lake (+10)

30 Seattle Sounders FC (+4)

30 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (0)

23 LA Galaxy (-1)

-----

22 Colorado Rapids (+1)

20 CD Chivas USA (-7)

19 Portland Timbers (-8)

16 FC Dallas (-10)

NOTICE

Sign up today for MLS Fantasy Soccer Manager, and then become a member of the du Nord Futbol league using this code: 3815-897

-There are 142 teams in our league!

-The league leader is LateNight504FC managed by Alan Kansas.

MLS TEAM AND PLAYER NEWS

General News

Real Salt Lake forward Alvaro Saborio has been named Player Of The Week.

dN

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with a look back at the week that just was - the Monday Morning Breakdown.

Player Transactions

Sporting Kansas City has signed 25 year old Serbian versatile defender(pref centerback) Neven Markovic from Doxa Drama FC in Greece.

dN

San Jose has released high priced recent international signing Tressor Moreno who saw very little time on the field.

-Patience rarely works in these cases, but SJ is only an injury or two away from needing the depth this player provided.

dN

SJ also sold Anthony Ampaipitakwong to a team in Thailand.

dN

Chivas has acquired centerback Bobby Burling from Montreal in exchange for a foreign player roster spot.

DC UNITED

Steven Goff of the Post looks ahead to the Tuesday announcement of a major investor in the team by giving us a run down of the history of all the financial investors in DCU.

MLS SUMMER FRIENDLIES

Here is the complete schedule of all the big club matches going on this summer pitting MLS teams against European teams.

NASL SCOREBOARD

Matches + Scores:

-Sat Jul 7

Carolina RailHawks 3-3 Fort Lauderdale Strikers

Puerto Rico Islanders 1-1 FC Edmonton

Minnesota Stars 0-2 Atlanta Silverbacks

-Wed Jul 7

Puerto Rico Islanders v San Antonio Scorpions

-Thu Jul 12

Minnesota Stars v Tampa Bay Rowdies

-Sat Jul 14

Atlanta Silverbacks v Puerto Rico Islanders

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v San Antonio Scorpions

-Sun Jul 15

FC Edmonton v Tampa Bay Rowdies

Watch online

Standings

28 San Antonio (+10)

25 Puerto Rico (+7)

24 Tampa Bay (+2)

23 Minnesota (+2)

21 Carolina (+2)

20 Fort Lauderdale (-4)

13 Edmonton (-4)

11 Atlanta (-15)

No change in the standings at all.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Pat Phelan got his first goal for SJK in Finland's second division on Saturday.

dN

Game Action:

FINLAND - Veikkausliiga

Mike Banner - Jaro - on the bench as they won 1-0 v Haka.

Etchu Tabe - KuPS - went the distance as they drew 1-1 at MYPA

FINLAND - Ykkonen

Justin Moose - SJK - started and went 57 min as they tied 1-1 v Hameenlinna.

Pat Phelan - SJK - played the full 90 and scored a goal as they tied 1-1 v Hameenlinna.

Aaron Wheeler - KooTeePee - went the whole game getting a yellow card and losing badly 0-4 v Viikingit.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Erik Benjaminsen - Stabaek - on the bench as they lost 1-2 v Stromsgodset.

Ricardo Clark - Stabaek - went the full 90 but lost 1-2 v Stromsgodset.

Steve Clark - Honefoss - went the full match getting the win 2-1 v Brann.

Sean Cunningham - Stabaek - played entire match losing 1-2 v Stromsgodset.

Josh Gatt - Molde - started and went 81 minutes losing 1-0 v Rosenborg.

NORWAY - 1 Divisjon

Rhett Bernstein - Mjondalen - started but came off at half time as they won 2-1 v Kongsvinger.

Kyle Helton - Mjondalen - came on as a sub at half time and they won 2-1 v Kongsvinger.

Sebastian Troupe - Baerum - played the whole 90 as they rolled 6-0 v Notodden.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Brian Span - Djurgarden - came on as a sub in the 64th min as they tied 1-1 at Syrianska.

ENGLAND

Manchester City has given head coach Roberto Mancini a new 5 year contract.

FRANCE

Didier Deschamps who resigned as head coach of Marseille last week has been hired as the new head coach of the France national team.
