STUNNING OPENING HEADLINE

OFFICIAL: du Nord rules out move for David Beckman loan deal.

STARTERS

Robin Fraser has been officially announced as they new head coach of CHIVAS USA.

dN

They say that Toronto will officially introduce their next head coach on Thursday.

dN

Clint Dempsey scored for Fulham in a league match today.

STORY OF THE DAY

Brian Quarstad at IM Soccer tries to pull the covers off the future of professional soccer in San Antonio.

TEAM USA

The annual January training camp for young and out-of season players with national team potential begins tomorrow Tue Jan 4 in Carson CA and ends with a friendly game on Sat Jan 22 at the Home Depot Center.

dN

Official team blog

dN

Match & Score:

-Sat Jan 22

USA v Chile - 8pm Central on TV tbd.

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

ENGLAND

The Premier League is finishing up 4 rounds of play in an 11 day span. Unreal. Here are some of the marquee games from the clubs to see.

dN

Standings (as of Tue Jan 4):

44 Man United (20 played)

41 Man City (21 played)

39 Arsenal (20 played)

36 Tottenham (20 played)

- - - - - -

35 Chelsea (20 played)

29 Bolton (20 played)

27 Sunderland (20 played)

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Jan 4

Man United 2-1 Stoke

-Wed Jan 5

Arsenal v Man City

Wolverhampton v Chelsea

Everton v Tottenham

dN

And here is what our America players are up against during this stretch:

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Last: Tue Jan 4 started and went 87 minutes, scoring a goal, as they won 3-0 v West Brom.

-Currently in 13th place with 22 points from 21 games.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Next: Wed Jan 5 v Sunderland.

-Currently in 15th place with 21 points from 20 games.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - Next: Wed Jan 5 v Chelsea.

-Currently in 20th place with 18 points from 20 games.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - Next: Wed Jan 5 v Wigan.

-Currently in 7th place with 29 points from 21 games.

Tim Howard - Everton - Next: Wed Jan 5 v Tottenham.

-Currently in 13th place with 22 points from 20 games.

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Last: Tue Jan 4 came on as a sub in the 87th minute of a win 3-0 v West Brom.

-Currently in 13th place with 22 points from 21 games.

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - Next: Wed Jan 5 v Sunderland.

-Currently in 15th place with 21 points from 20 games.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Next: Wed Jan 5 at Newcastle.

-Currently in 16th place with 20 points from 21 games.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

The annual pre-Superdraft try-out, aka the Combine, will take place this Sat Jan 8 - Tue Jan 11 in Ft Lauderdale. The draft itself will be held next Wed Jan 13 in Baltimore.

FC DALLAS

Buzz Carrick at 3rd Degree brings us up to date on the lack of news coming outta Dallas.

DC UNITED

The Washington Post with a big DCU offseason update today.

USA U20 TEAM

The team will hold another training camp in early January as they get closer to World Cup qualifying in early April.

dN

This camp will run Jan 2-13 in Ft Lauderdale FL.

dN

Noah Davis at MLSsoccer.com enlightens us on a couple of these players.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Michael Adubato of Yanks Abroad checks in with Sacha Kljestan about life at Anderlecht.

-No mention of his recent injury.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Arch Bell of Yanks Abroad talks to Eric Wynalda about his job working for the club Murcielagos as their USA connection.

-Here never runs out of ideas of things to say about soccer in America.

dN

Jonathan Bornstein will miss the first game of the season with his new team UANL Tigres due to a hamstring strain. The injury is not serious.

dN

There is an American playing for Tijuana named Joe Corona. Obviously he is the real Joe SixPack.

SPAIN

Kaka made his return to the field for Real Madrid yesterday as he came on as a sub in the 76th minute of their 2-3 win at smaller city rivals Getafe.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on the financially broke team Hercules and their bum turned star turned bum again player Royston Drenthe, and the rest of the weekends game in La Liga.

dN

Copa Del Rey Round of 32

2nd Leg

-Wed Jan 5

Deportivo La Coruna v Cordoba (1-1)

Athletic Bilbao v Barcelona (0-0)

Malaga v Sevilla (3-5)

-Thu Jan 6

Villarreal v Valencia (0-0)

Mallorca v Almeria (3-4)

Espanyol v Atletico Madrid (0-1)

Getafe v Real Betis (2-1)

Levante v Real Madrid (0-8)

ENDERS

Aaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhh Sonic Youth. This video is called Hits of Sunshine (for Allen Ginsberg)
