STARTERS

Holy shit. What can you even say after that game. I let the Costa Rica game slide off my back. I had fun at the Honduras game. The Italy game was OK, but they could have been more effective. Today was supposed to be a step forward. And yet it was a complete failure. Complete. And if you read me regularly you know that I never bag on coach Bradley. But today. What was that? I am psychologically frail sitting at my desk back at work. Can someone make the pain stop?

dN

From Kick Off of South Africa: "Fans at Loftus Versfeld, Tshwane could be forgiven for thinking they were watching the All Whites of New Zealand, not the USA, so one-sided was the first half, with Brazil attacking effortlessly and remorselessly." Now that my friends is a justified insult. Possibly even an insult to New Zealand as well.

dN

Yes you can fritter with my Twitter: dunord

TEAM USA - CONFEDERATIONS CUP

Twitter from freddyadu11 after the game: "Damn!"

dN

USA Group Stage Matches:

-Mon Jun 15

USA 1-3 Italy - USA goal by Landon Donovan(PK). Ita goals by Giuseppe Rossi(2) & Daniele De Rossi.

Venue: Loftus Versfeld Stadium - Pretoria

-Thu Jun 18

USA 0-3 Brazil - Braz goals by Felipe Melo, Robinho & Douglas Maicon.

Venue: Loftus Versfeld Stadium - Pretoria

Post game analysis by Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

Post game quotes from coach & players by Wahl.

Match report from Kick Off.

-Sun Jun 21

USA v Egypt - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: Royal Bafokeng Stadium - Rustenburg

dN

du Nord 3(11) Stars Of The Game

3. (the blank spot) - Even on the previous worst days I could find one of our boys to plug - but not this time. Maybe you could picture this as the Tomb Of The Unknown Soldier, expect without the honor.

2. Andre Santos, Felipe Melo, Gilberto Silva, Julio Cesar, Kaka, Lucio, Luis Fabiano, Miranda, Ramires, Robinho - The other 10 Brazilian starters who just blew the USA off the field without losing their smile. It was fantastic to watch. Too bad I was in the men's room throwing up.

1. Maicon - So easy a caveman could do it. That's how it looked anyway. What an amazing game coming from a right back. He plays for Inter Milan, who are my team, and had a great start to the 08/09 season but ran out of gas after the start of the new year. He had it all back today. Flying upfield, putting beautiful passes to everyone, making life a joy for his teammates. And that is without even mentioning the ridiculous goal he scored. Yes I know it took a deflection but it was still a gorgeous piece of work. One of the best performances I have seen in a while.

dN

Now that Egypt has beaten Italy the USA still have a whisper of a chance to advance: USA has to beat Egypt by 3 goals and Brazil has to beat Italy by 4! How much are you putting down in Vegas for that to happen? So now who does the USA put on the field?

dN

Fans on the USMNT official blog comments section are losing their minds. Full meltdowns. I can't blame them. This is sad to see.

dN

USMNT Official Blog

dN

South African for a nutmeg: Shibobo. I like that a lot.

dN

ESPN lost the picture/sound on their end this morning, it was not the international feed as we have seen before.

CONFEDERATIONS CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2009

"Fifa (is) to meet and discuss whether or not the (sound of the) Vuvuzela is good for the game..." Here, let me take a crack at this one, "Aaaaaaaaaaaaah, NO. Next?"

dN

Group A

6 Spain

4 South Africa

1 Iraq

0 New Zealand

Group B

6 Brazil (+4)

3 Italy (+1)

3 Egypt (0)

0 USA (-5)

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Jun 14

South Africa 0-0 Iraq

New Zealand 0-5 Spain - Spa goals by Fernando Torres(3), Cesc Fabregas & David Villa.

-Mon Jun 15

Brazil 4-3 Egypt - Braz goals by Kaka(2 - one via PK), Luis Fabiano & Juan. Egy goals by Mohamed Zidan & Mohamed Shawky.

USA 1-3 Italy - USA goal by Landon Donovan(PK). Ita goals by Giuseppe Rossi(2) & Daniele De Rossi.

-Wed Jun 17

Spain 1-0 Iraq - Spa goal by David Villa.

South Africa 2-0 New Zealand - SA goals both by Bernard Parker.

-Thu Jun 18

USA 0-3 Brazil - Braz goals by Felipe Melo, Robinho & Douglas Maicon.

Egypt 1-0 Italy - Egy goal by Mohamed Homos.

-Sat Jun 20

Iraq v New Zealand - delayed to Midnight Central Sunday morning on ESPN2

Spain v South Africa - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

-Sun Jun 21

Italy v Brazil - 1:00pm Central on ESPN

Egypt v USA - 1:25pm Central on ESPN2

MLS

MLS Week 14 Matches:

-Wed Jun 17

Seattle Sounders FC 3-3 DC United - SSFC goals by Oswaldo Alonso, Marc Burch(OG) & Fredy Montero. DCU goals by Chris Pontius, Christian Gomez & Tyrone Marshall(OG).

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 29,104

Match report from the Seattle Post Intelligencer. Kasey Keller goes off on his teammates.

-Sat Jun 20

San Jose Earthquakes v Los Angeles Galaxy - 3:30pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

Venue: Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum - Oakland CA

New York Red Bulls v Seattle Sounders FC - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

FC Dallas v Columbus Crew - 7:30pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Houston Dynamo v Real Salt Lake - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Colorado Rapids v DC United - 8:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

dN

Toronto has this weekend off. While the leagues 4 other teams not playing are involved in SuperLiga action.

dN

Chicago is about to regain the services of speedy pest Calen Carr. He blew out his knee a year ago, suffered through 2 surgery's to repair it and has completed rehab.

dN

Lance Hornby of the Toronto Sun says TFC needs more offense. I know I am always the contrarian, but I say, start at the back, get that right and then move up field.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post talks to former Colorado goalkeeper Bouna Coundoul who has been without a team since last fall, and is getting a tryout in NY.

dN

Lewis also talks to Ernst Obster from Red Bull Salzburg in Austria, who also wants to play in NY.

dN

The Washington Post with some news on stadium ideas for DC United. One quote in particular will entertain all you fanaticos - a guy claims to be a big soccer then makes a remark so stupid you can clearly tell he does not follow MLS. See if you can find it.

dN

Looks like FC Dallas are getting some new neighbors in Frisco - the NBA team Dallas Mavericks will start their own Development league team who will play in Frisco.

USL FIRST DIVISION

This Week's Matches & Scores:

-Thu Jun 18

Cleveland City Stars v Miami FC Blues

Puerto Rico Islanders v Charleston Battery

-Fri Jun 19

Austin Aztex v Carolina RailHawks

Portland Timbers v Minnesota Thunder

-Sat Jun 20

Montreal Impact v Vancouver Whitecaps

Cleveland City Stars v Miami FC Blues

Puerto Rico Islanders v Charleston Battery

-Sun Jun 21

Austin Aztex v Rochester Rhinos

dN

Standings:

24 Charleston

23 Carolina

20 Portland

19 Puerto Rico

14 Rochester

14 Vancouver

11 Montreal

10 Austin

10 Miami

8 Cleveland

7 Minnesota

US OPEN CUP

If my Thunder get past Kansas City in the next round they will host the winner of Portland v Seattle in the Quarterfinals. Please let it be Seattle, please let it be Seattle, please let it be Seattle, please let it be Seattle. Nothing against Portland, they are good, I just want to have a shot at another MLS team, especially one we hate as much as Seattle.

dN

The Oregonian with an article on the US Open Cup and why it should be a bigger deal than it is.

SUPERLIGA 2009

The 3rd edition of the highly entertaining, yet somehow useless summer tournament between 4 MLS & 4 FMF sides begins this weekend - Sat Jun 20. All games on TeleFutura. Are you ready?

dN

Official Site

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Soccer Philanthropist Ethan Zohn is fighting cancer, and People Magazine has video of him talking about his treatment. Not surprisingly he is in great spirits, and the only thing that really seems different about him is that iconic long curly black hair is gone. Good luck Ethan!

MEXICO

Former Chivas USA player Panchito Mendoza has been sold from Guadalajara to Jaguares of Chiapas. Looks like his dream of playing for the Mother Goat is over.

CANADIAN CHAMPIONSHIP TOURNAMENT

Montreal Impact, Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps face off for their countries club title. The winner of the two legged round robin tournament gets a spot in the 09/10 CONCACAF Champions League.

This week is the final matchday. Vancouver is in the drivers seat, but Toronto can knock them out with a huge win on the road at already elimidated Montreal. TFC needs to win by 4 goals or more to steal the Cup.

Match Schedule:

-Thu Jun 18

Montreal v Toronto

Standings (4 game home & away round robin):

9 (+4) Vancouver (4 played)

6 (0) Toronto (3 played)

OUT - 0 (-4) Montreal (3 played)

COPA LIBERTADORES

Quarterfinal 2nd Leg Matches (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Wed Jun 17

Nacional v Palmeiras (1-1)

Sao Paulo v Cruzeiro (1-2)

Gremio v Caracas (1-1)

-Thu Jun 18

Estudiantes v Defensor (1-0)

dN

Semifinals

-Wed Jun 24 & Wed Jul 1

Final

-Wed Jul 8 & Wed Jul 15

FIFA

Jere Longman of the New York Times has words from Our Supreme Commander In Football Sepp Blatter, who is telling the USA that what we need is games in the winter, not the summer, that will solve all our problems. Sure buddy, let me know when you are off the cough syrup. Here is his big arguement: “There is one big problem and officials in the US know it – that because teams did not have their own stadia in the MLS they had to use the stadia of another sport - like American football." Let's see how that is going shall we. Here are the teams in the league and those about to join, and where they currently play:

Chicago Fire - Bridgeview Stadium

Chivas USA - Home Depot Center

Colorado Rapids - Dicks Sporting Goods Park

Columbus Crew - Crew Stadium

*DC United - RFK Stadium

FC Dallas - Pizza Hut Park

*Houston Dynamo - Robertson Stadium

*Kansas City Wizards - Community America Ballpark

Los Angeles Galaxy - Home Depot Center

New England Revolution - Gillette Stadium

*New York Red Bulls - Giants Stadium

Real Salt Lake - Rio Tinto Stadium

*San Jose Earthquakes - Buck Shaw Stadium

Seattle Sounders FC - Qwest Field

Toronto FC - BMO Field

- - - -

Philadelphia Union - Chester stadium

Portland Timbers - refurbished PGE Park

Vancouver Whitecaps - refurbished BC Place

In conclusion: 5 of 18 teams don't have their own stadium (New England & Seattle are owned by American football teams who own stadium and share). Of those 5 New York moves into their new home next spring, Kansas City & San Jose are very close to having land deals done to build on, and Houston & DC are working their asses off to build a new home with little or no help from the community they play in. I think we can safely tell Sepp Blatter to stuff that in his pipe and smoke it.

ENDERS

Our friend and proper Englishman Richard Allen has published the 3rd Annual Fulham Review - By The Fans, For The Fans. A great review of the entire 08/09 campaign by the team that all the American soccer fans have come to love.
