It's Day 250 of 2017.

MINNESOTA UNITED

Things are not smooth or beautiful for the Loons next opponent - Philadelphia Union. And the coach Jim Curtain knows how frustrated the fans are. By Jonathan Tannenwald for the Philadelphia Daily News.

Philly currently sits 7 points out of securing an Eastern Conference playoff position, with 7 games left to play.

Injury etc update: Cronin + Taylor out with concussions. Ramirez possible with hamstring. Molino, Calvo + JVenegas just returning from international duty. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Schedule:

-Sat Sep 9

Minnesota v Philadelphia Union - 7pm CT on My29 in the Twin Cities

The 2 MNUFC Academy teams play their first pair of games this weekend:

(at NSC in Blaine)

Sat Sep 9 U13 v Campton United - 9:30AM CT

du Nord follower Rob Spence says this first game is most worth watching and to keep an eye on Micah Burton, Solomon Straub and Jonah Gasho in this first game.

Sat Sep 9 U14 v Campton United - 11:30AM CT

---

Sun Sep 10 U13 v Cincinnati United Premier - 9:30AM CT

Sun Sep 10 U14 v Cincinnati United Premier - 11:30AM CT

dN

Suspend: du Nord Music Mix Vol 137 (download + extract)

dN

44 stadiums in 41 cities are on the list for bidding to host games for Men's World Cup 2026 in North America

Minneapolis is included pic.twitter.com/1oI88TCeTk

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) September 7, 2017

dN

MLS

Will Johnson of Orlando City was arrested and charged with domestic assault on Tuesday night. Its as nasty as these horrific events usually are. By Alicia DelGallo for the Orlando Sentinel.

He has been suspended by the team and league pending a full investigation.

The story of a the fascinating player Gerso of Sporting Kansas City - its quite the tale. By Sam McDowell for the Kansas City Star.

Atlanta is blazing new trails for MLS teams with its batch of young talented players who are now attracting big money attention from around the world. By Sam Stejskal for MLS.

How has the Video Assistant Referee system worked so far in MLS? Lets hear from the guy in charge. From the Press Association via ESPNFC.

Really good action last tonight: NYC v SKC, and New York won it with the games only goal in the 84th minute.

NYC is 6 points behind Toronto in the Supporters Shield race, and seem to be the only team with any chance at all of catching them. (And that seems far fetched too.)

Week 27 Schedule:

(12 games)

-Wed Sep 6

New York City 1-0 KC

-Sat Sep 9

Chicago v New York Red Bulls - 2:55pm CT on UniMas

Toronto v San Jose

New York City v Portland

DC v Orlando

New England v Montreal

Minnesota v Philadelphia

Houston v Colorado

Vancouver v Salt Lake

-Sun Sep 10

Columbus v KC - 12pm CT on ESPN

Atlanta v Dallas - 2:30pm CT on FS1

Seattle v LA - 8pm CT on FS1

dN

USMNT

Why has this World Cup qualifying campaign been one of the most difficult? The answers are simple, obvious and not new. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

Inconsistency bit the USA in the ass in the last two World Cup qualifiers, and before that too. What are the most important changes needed? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

The Bird Is The Word
