STARTERS

UNAM Pumas pulled off a great upset, winning the Mexican Clausura championship, beating Pachuca 3-2 on aggregate. Huge congrats to the Big Cats! Esplendido!

dN

Bordeaux are French Ligue 1 Champions, ending Lyon's 7 year reign. Magnifique!

dN

Carlo Ancelotti has left Milan and will become the new head coach at Chelsea.

MLS

Week 11 Matches:

-Wed May 27

Columbus Crew 2-1 San Jose Earthquakes - CC goals by Guillermo Barros Schelotto & Eddie Gaven. SJE goal by Ryan Johnson.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 8,793

-Thu May 28

Chivas USA 2-3 Chicago Fire - CUSA goals by Paulo Nagamura & Maykel Galindo. CF goals by Cuauhtemoc Blanco(2 - both via PK) & Patrick Nyarko.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 20,379

-Sat May 30

New York Red Bulls 2-3 Colorado Rapids - NYRB goals by Juan Pablo Angel(PK) & Danleigh Borman. CR goals by Conor Casey(2) & Mehdi Ballouchy(PK).

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

Attendance: 12,039

New England Revolution 2-1 DC United - NER goals by Shalrie Joseph & Steve Ralston(PK). DCU goal by Fred.

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Attendance: 15,271

Houston Dynamo 3-0 Toronto FC - HD goals by Brad Davis, Kei Kamara & Stuart Holden.

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Attendance: 16,037

Seattle Sounders FC 1-1 Columbus Crew - SSFC goal by Nate Jaqua. CC goal by Alejandro Moreno.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 29,126

Los Angeles Galaxy 1-1 Kansas City Wizards - LAG goal by Edson Buddle. KCW goal by Davy Arnaud.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 19,673

San Jose Earthquakes 2-1 Real Salt Lake - SJE goals by Cornell Glen & Arturo Alvarez. RSL goal by Robbie Findley.

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 10,153

-Sun May 31

Chicago Fire 0-3 FC Dallas - FCD goals by Jeff Cunningham, CJ Brown(OG) & Kenny Cooper.

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 13,120

dN

Ejections

-Bakary Soumare - Chicago - 2 Yellow Cards

-Gregg Berhalter - Los Angeles - Red Card

-Tyrone Marshall - Seattle - Red Card

-Jesse Marsch - Chivas USA - 2 Yellow Cards

dN

A pretty crazy round in MLS. Check this out:

-Colorado looks really good in winning in New York - they could be a shocker of a team this season.

-New England ends their dreadful run, gets Taylor Twellman back on the field, and wins on a PK after a really questionable call.

-Houston pulverizes TFC in the first half then cruises to victory.

-LA ties AGAIN. They have 9 tie games in 11 tries.

-San Jose gets it together at least for one day, and beats RSL at home. RSL are absolutely terrible on the road, but at least they managed a goal this time (they had not even scored away from home this season before this.)

-The other really stinky team, Dallas, goes to Chicago and just pastes them 0-3. Wow.

dN

Steve Sirk on the Columbus Crew website gives us his bi-weekly notebook full of goodies.

dN

John Canzano of the Oregonian asks Portlanders to take a better look at Portland Timbers owner Merritt Paulson, and judge him on the full picture, not the nickpicked bits that are convenient for arguments against him.

dN

Columbus midfielder Brian Carroll who suffered a severely separated shoulder last week against San Jose has decided to skip having surgery for now, and try rehabbing in hopes of playing again this season.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News looks at Salt Lakes constant lineup tinkering that is not having any positive impact.

dN

Steve Kelly of the Seattle Times with an article on Sounder keeper Kasey Keller.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America with an article on one of du Nord's favorite MLS players, KC Wiz forward Claudio Lopez.

dN

Jack Bell of the New York Times blog Goal gives a wrap up of the weekends highlights.

dN

Luton's Northern Ireland forward Paul McVeigh is in San Jose getting a try out.

dN

Playoff Picture - if the regular season ended today (Top 2 in the East & West plus next best 4 make the post season):

EAST

21 Chicago

16 Kansas City

WEST

24 Chivas

18 Houston

NEXT 4

17 Seattle

16 Colorado (+3)

16 DC (+1)

16 Toronto (-3)

OUT

13 New England (-2)

13 Columbus (-7)

12 Los Angeles

11 Salt Lake

9 New York (-4)

9 Dallas (-5)

8 San Jose

USL FIRST DIVISION

Scores from the weekend:

-Fri May 29

Carolina RailHawks 1-0 Cleveland City Stars

Austin Aztex 3-1 Puerto Rico Islanders

-Sat May 30

Charleston Battery 2-0 Cleveland City Stars

Rochester Rhinos 0-1 Montreal Impact

Portland Timbers 2-0 Vancouver Whitecaps

-Sun May 31

Minnesota Thunder 1-2 Puerto Rico Islander

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Paul Oberjuerge talks to Steve Sampson about Landon Donovan and his future in Europe.

dN

Oberjuerge also talks to Sampson about USA at World Cup 98 and his relationship with Alexi Lalas.

dN

Adam Spangler of This Is American Soccer tells us about a Soccer based Film Festival coming to New York City in mid-July.

TEAM AMERICA

Maurice Edu has stayed in Glasgow and is definitely out of Wednesday's game against Costa Rica due to his leg injury.

dN

The team has headed to Costa Rica today where they will train this evening and again tomorrow ahead of Wednesday's huge match!

dN

Here is audio of coach Bob Bradley's full conference call with reporters last Friday.

dN

Ives Galarcep of Soccer by Ives has made the trek to Costa Rica.

dN

Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald reports that the team has been training on fake turf to prepare for Saprissa.

dN

Adam Beasley of the Miami Herald talks to Michael Bradley about the constant talks of nepotism.

dN

Kristian Dyer with an article on what Brian Ching adds to the team.

dN

Freddy Adu says he has put on 8 pounds of muscle this year. Hmmmmm.

dN

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet looks at these 2 very important upcoming games.

dN

The Sierra Vista Herald (Arizona) with an article on their local player Luis Robles who had been training with the USA this past week in Miami. Could we see him on the Gold Cup team?

dN

The other training only player, Eric Lichaj, is making the trip south with the team. Very cool for him.

dN

Official Blog

-Q & A with training camp goalkeeper Luis Robles.

dN

Steve Davis at ESPN Soccernet previews the Costa Rica game on Wednesday.

dN

Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald previews Costa Rica.

dN

Yellow Card watch: Jozy Altidore, Michael Bradley, Clint Dempsey, Frankie Hejduk & Oguchi Onyewu are all sitting on a Yellow Card which means if they get a second one they will have to sit out a game. This is the stupidest rule I have ever heard of, because if you get Red Carded in one game its the same punishment as getting a Yellow in say Game 1 and Game 6. What a joke.

dN

World Cup Qualifying Matches:

-Wed Jun 3

Costa Rica v USA - from Estadio Ricardo Saprissa in San Jose CR - 9pm Central on ESPN & Galavision

-Sat Jun 6

USA v Honduras - from Soldier Field in Chicago IL - 7pm Central on ESPN Classic & Galavision

dN

The USA U18 team in Portugal - Lisbon International Tournament

Match Schedule:

-Wed May 27

USA 1-0 Finland - USA goal by Gale Agbossoumonde.

-Thu May 28

USA 0-0 Germany

Match report from US Soccer.

-Sat May 30

USA 0-1 Portugal - Por goal by Zarek Valentin(OG).

Match report from US Soccer.

dN

Brent Latham at ESPN Soccernet gives us an early look at who will most likely will make up the USA U20 World Cup team, playing in late September in Egypt.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Ravi Ubha of ESPN Soccernet looks back at the season just ended for Clint Dempsey at Fulham and Jemal Johnson at Milton Keynes.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Jose Francisco Torres found himself on the losing end of the Clausura championship. He came on as a sub in the 72nd minute to no avail. This ends a great season for him. We can only hope to see a lot of him on the field this summer for the USA.

MEXICO

Primera Clausura Liguilla Finals

1st Leg Match:

-Thu May 28

UNAM Pumas 1-0 Pachuca - UNAM goal by Dante Lopez.

2nd Leg Match (with 1st Leg score included)

-Sun May 31

Pachuca 2-2 UNAM Pumas (0-1) - Pumas stun the Tuzos and win the championship 3-2 on aggregate by scoring in Extra Time! - Pach goals both by Chaco Gimenez(1 via PK). UNAM goal by Dante Lopez & Pablo Barrera.

CANADA

Canadian Championship tournament - Toronto can wrap up the title this week.

Montreal Impact, Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps face off. The winner of the two legged round robin tournament gets a spot in the 09/10 CONCACAF Champions League.

dN

Ben Rycroft of Metro Toronto gives us some history on this tournament.

dN

Matches:

-Tue Jun 2

Vancouver v Toronto

Standings (4 game home & away round robin):

6 (+2) Toronto (2 played)

6 (+2) Vancouver (3 played)

OUT - 0 (-4) Montreal (3 played)

dN

Gareth Wheeler of the Toronto Sun with notes on the men's and women's national teams, and TFC.

dN

Don Ruiz of The Olympian says that Red Cards and tie games make Seattle coach Sigi Schmid a dull boy.

ENGLAND

Sunderland will hired Wigan head coach Steve Bruce as their new manager.

EUROPE

Florentino Perez, the man behind the Galacticos era at Real Madrid, is back again as team President. What can we expect this time? Ribery, Kaka & C Ronaldo?

dN

AC Milan has named former player Leonardo as their new head coach, replacing Carlo Ancelotti who has left to coach Chelsea.

dN

Real Madrid has hired Villarreal coach Manuel Pellegrini as their new head man. What will this do to Jozy Altidore's future with the Yellow Submarine?

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian reports on the Last Day Blues in La Liga.

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian calls this the end of an era in Serie A.

dN

French Ligue 1 Championship

80 Bordeaux - final match: W 0-1 at Caen

77 Marseille - final match: W 4-0 v Stade Rennes

dN

Bordeaux are French Ligue 1 Champions in fine style. Congrats to coach Laurent Blanc and les Girondins.

dN

Ben Lyttleton of the Guardian on Bordeaux's great success in France!

dN

Relegation battles:

Italian Serie A - season is now over.

37 Bologna - final match: W 3-1 v Catania

- - - - -

34 Torino - final match: L 3-2 at Roma

31 Reggina

30 Lecce

Spanish La Liga - season is now over.

43 Valladolid - final match: D 1-1 at Real Betis

43 Osasuna - final match: W 2-1 v Real Madrid

43 Sporting Gijon - final match: W 2-1 v Recreativo Huelva

42 (-6) Getafe - final match: D 1-1 at Racing Santander

- - - - -

42 (-7) Real Betis - final match: D 1-1 v Valladolid

35 Numancia

33 Recreativo Huelva

French Ligue 1 - season is now over.

42 Sochaux - final match: W 0-1 at Grenoble

40 Le Mans - final match: D 1-1 at Lorient

40 St Etienne - final match: W 4-0 v Valenciennes

- - - - -

37 Caen - final match: L 0-1 v Bordeaux

37 Nantes - final match: W 2-1 v Auxerre

25 Le Havre - final match: Sun May 31

German Bundesliga - Promotion/Relegation playoff - 3rd from bottom in 1.Bundes faces off against 3rd from top 2.Bundes:

1st Leg Match

-Thu May 28

Energie Cottbus(1.B) 0-3 Nurnberg(2.B)

2nd Leg Match

-Sun May 31

Nurnberg 2-0 Energie Cottbus - Nurn are promoted 5-0 on aggregate!

dN

Other Cup competitions around Europe:

Scottish Cup Final

-Sat May 30

Rangers 1-0 Falkirk - Ran goal by Nacho Novo. - Rangers claim the league double by winning the Cup and the League.

-Neither Edu or Beasley were included in the game day roster.

English FA Cup Final

-Sat May 30

Chelsea 2-1 Everton - Chel goals by Didier Drogba & Frank Lampard. Ever goal by Louis Saha.

-Tim Howard in goal by Everton.

-The Sports Anchor at half time of NE v DC game called him Dieter Drogba!

DFB Pokal Final

-Sat May 30

Werder Bremen 1-0 Bayer Leverkusen - WB goal by Mesut Ozil.

Taca de Portugal Final

-Sun May 31

Pacos de Ferreira 0-1 Porto - Congrats to Porto who has won the double.

Ukrainian Cup Final

-Sun May 31

Vorskla Poltava 1-0 Shakhtar Donetsk - congrats to Vorskla on winning the Cup.

dN

Top Goal Scorers In Europe’s Major Leagues:

England Premier League

19 Nicolas Anelka - Chelsea

18 Cristiano Ronaldo - Manchester United

16 Steven Gerrard - Liverpool

14 Fernando Torres - Liverpool

14 Robinho - Manchester City

Germany Bundesliga

28 Grafite - Wolfsburg

26 Edin Dzeko - Wolfsburg

24 Mario Gomez - Stuttgart

21 Patrick Helmes - Bayer Leverkusen

18 Vedad Ibisevic - Hoffenheim

Spain Primera Liga

32 Diego Forlan - Atletico Madrid

30 Samuel Eto'o - Barcelona

28 David Villa - Valencia

23 Lionel Messi - Barcelona

22 Gonzalo Higuain - Real Madrid

Italy Serie A

25 Zlatan Ibrahimovic - Inter

24 Marco Di Vaio - Bologna

24 Diego Milito - Genoa

19 Alberto Gilardino - Fiorentina

16 Kaka - AC Milan

France Ligue 1

24 Andre-Pierre Gignac - Toulouse

17 Karim Benzema - Lyon

17 Guillaume Hoarau - Paris Saint-Germain

14 Michel Fernandes Bastos - Lille

14 Ireneusz Jelen - Auxerre

14 Steve Savidan - Caen

Netherlands Eredivisie

23 Mounir El Hamdaoui - AZ Alkmaar

22 Luis Suarez - Ajax Amsterdam

17 Marcus Berg - Groningen

16 Roy Makaay - Feyenoord Rotterdam

16 Blaise N'Kufo - Twente Enschede

16 Danijel Pranjic - Heerenveen

SOUTH AMERICA

Argentine Clausura Championship:

(3 games left to go)

34 Lanus - Last: W 2-1 v San Lorenzo - Next: Sat Jun 13 at Arsenal de Sarandi

33 Velez Sarsfield - Last: W 0-1 at Gimnasia de Jujuy - Next: Sat Jun 13 v Newell's Old Boys

32 Huracan - Last: W 2-1 v Banfield - Next: Sat Jun 13 at San Lorenzo

28 Colon - Last: W 1-3 at Godoy Cruz - Next: Sat Jun 13 v Gimnasia la Plata

24 River Plate - Last: D 0-0 at Argentinos Juniors - Next: Sat Jun 13 v Tigre

- - - - - (now out of race for championship)

23 Estudiantes - Last: L 2-0 at Tigre

22 Gimnasia La Plata - Last: D 0-0 v Racing Club

21 Newell's Old Boys - Last: D 1-1 v Arsenal de Sarandi

21 Racing Club - Last: D 0-0 at Gimnasia La Plata

20 Tigre - Last: W 2-0 v Estudiantes

20 Godoy Cruz - Last: L 1-3 v Colon

dN

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Uruguayan forward & long time arch villain Sebastian Abreu. His current club is Real Sociedad in Spain.

CONFEDERATIONS CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2009

Spain's roster for the tournament:

G:

Iker Casillas - Real Madrid

Diego Lopez - Villarreal

Pepe Reina - Liverpool

D:

Raul Albiol - Valencia

Alvaro Arbeloa - Liverpool

Joan Capdevila - Villarreal

Carlos Marchena - Valencia

Gerard Pique - Barcelona

Carles Puyol - Barcelona

Sergio Ramos - Real Madrid

M:

Xabi Alonso - Liverpool

Sergi Busquets - Barcelona

Santi Cazorla - Villarreal

Cesc Fabregas - Arsenal

Xavi Hernandez - Barcelona

Andres Iniesta - Barcelona

Juan Manuel Mata - Valencia

Albert Riera - Liverpool

David Silva - Valencia

F:

Daniel Guiza - Fenerbahce

Fernando Llorente - Bilbao

Fernando Torres - Liverpool

David Villa - Valencia

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores

-Fri May 29

China 1-1 Germany

Belgium 1-1 Chile

Ireland 1-1 Nigeria

Wales 1-0 Estonia

-Sat May 30

Oman 0-1 Egypt

Jamaica 0-0 El Salvador

Cyprus 0-1 Canada

Malawi 2-0 Rwanda

-Sun May 31

Ghana 2-0 Uganda

Japan 4-0 Belgium

Bahrain 3-1 Congo

Qatar 1-0 Iraq

Kuwait 0-1 Vietnam

Kuwait v Vietnam

-Mon Jun 1

Uzbekistan v Bosnia-Herzegovina

China v Iran

-Tue Jun 2

United Arab Emirates v Germany

Turkey v Azerbaijan

Oman v South Korea

-Wed Jun 3

Tanzania v New Zealand

Bahrain v Jordan

Antigua and Barbuda v Guyana

ENDERS

Happy Birfday smooches to Alexi Lalas.

dN

FIFA reports that Americans have bought the most World Cup tickets of any country so far. Wow. Where the hell are my tickets you bastards! Who are these Johnny-Come-Lately's and why don't they go to the World Cup qualifiers?????

dN

Got this Twitter message from Brian Ching at 2:50pm Central time today: "Just got to San Jose got practice in a few hours. Nice hotel. Probably going to go down to the pool with my book and relax for a bit."

And this one from Freddy Adu less than an hour later: "in Coasta rica right now. its mad hot. training in a couple of hours. Everyone is here except benny and califf. Now the fun begins"

-US Soccer gives us team photos of the travel day. Landon loves the lens.
