The Guardian gives us their list of the worlds 50 best players who were born in the year 1998. Yes, there is an American on this list. And two from Mexico

dN

CONCACAF Cup

USA v MEX

Sat Oct 10 at 8:30pm CT of FS1

Clint Dempsey has never scored against Mexico. Never. Ever.

DaMarcus Beasley: "The only USA v MEX game bigger than Saturday was at the 2002 World Cup."

Mexico has hired Juan Carlos Osorio to be the next head coach of the national team. He will not coach the team on Saturday, but will take over before they begin World Cup qualification on Nov 13.

-The Colombian has been head coach at both Chicago Fire and New York Red Bulls.

-His ridiculous nickname is El Recreacionista (The Recreationist.)

Despite the hire and Gold Cup win, Mexico is always in some state of turmoil. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

dN

The USA U23 Olympic qualifying team won their group thoroughly with more great performances from their 2 strikers Jerome Kieswetter and Jordan Morris. After 3 games those two have proved over and over that they are men among boys.

-Tue result: 4-0 winners over Panama.

-Finished group with 9 points from 3 games.

-13 goals for and 1 against. The 1 against made the team very mad as it happened 3 minutes into 2nd half stoppage time while up 6-0 over Cuba.

The all-important knockout qualifier game happens on Saturday against the loser of tonights Mexico v Honduras game. Match will be held in Sandy, Utah at Rio Tinto Stadium. Time TBA. Will be shown on Telemundo.

A good profile of Jordan Morris. Written by Jordan Ritter Conn for Grantland.

dN

Albania and Serbia face off this week on Thursday in a European Championship qualifier. OK. Qualifying is tough business. Right? Well, this one is a little more serious.

Last year at this time, during their previous meeting in Belgrade, an Albanian nationalist flew a drone into the stadium that was carrying an Albanian flag and let it hover over the field until it got to low and a Serbian player grabbed it, hauling it to the ground. The whole stadium went ape shit crazy and a riot broke out. The game was called off. Albania was later given a 3-0 forfeit win, and Serbia was deducted another 3 points for failing to control the crowd.

-The fallout from last year is ongoing. Story by James Montague of the New York Times.

dN

OFF TOPIC (SLIGHTLY):

I keep hearing all this hubub about Draft Kings and Fan Duel - fantasy sports games that pay money to winners. I just assumed it was gambling. Those companies say its not. Several major sports leagues in America are investors and sponsors in those companies. Hmmm. That seems odd to me. What is going on here?

-This is how it works.

-And this is the controversy that is emerging.

From the New York Times.

The Bird Is The Word
