NOTE:

There was a great fear that swept through the land last night when it was discovered that yesterday's regular soccer news post had glitched out and seemingly gone off to the ghostland of 1's and 0's. But this morning we managed to recover the first half, so here it is in all its post-Mexico City elation.

STARTERS

Rozco!

The du Nord Futbol Show Podcast Ep. 7 is ready - download or listen here.

History was made! The USA gave a full 100% effort and were rewarded with an unprecedented win in Mexico City.

Fox 26 Sports in Houston reports that NBA Houston Rockets ownership is negotiating to buy the Houston Dynamo MLS team.

Lost in in the incredibleness of the USA winning at Azteca last night is that Puerto Rico only lost 1-2 to Spain!

Damn, I just read that the Guardian Football Weekly will NOT have English Premier League preview. Season debut on Monday to recap opening weekend.

STORY OF THE DAY

Sid Lowe of the Guardian writes about the total domination of two teams in Spain's Primera which has lead to the devolution of the other teams in the league.

MINNESOTA STARS FC

Matches + Scores:

-Sat Aug 18

Atlanta Silverbacks v Minnesota Stars

Venue: Atlanta Silverbacks Park - Atlanta GA

-Sat Aug 25

Minnesota Stars v Edmonton

Venue: NSC Stadium - Blaine MN

TASTIEST MLS GAME OF THE WEEK

Two good ones on Sat: starting with the teams tied for 3rd in the West and part of the Cascadia derby its Seattle Sounders FC v Vancouver Whitecaps FC, and then a chance to see if this playoff contender is for real against the best in the league we have Montreal Impact v San Jose Earthquakes.

DU NORD AT THE CONTROLS

du Nord at the Controls - Tue Aug 14, 2012 - new music mix at Spotify.

TEAM USA - EL EQUIPO DE TODOS

Friendly in Mexico

Fabulous goalkeeping and sheer dumb luck lead to an astonishing and historic victory in Mexico City!

The USA got their first ever win in Mexico against El Tri!

How do you begin to put a game like that into words? In the seconds after the USA scored I just kept saying "How did that happen?" One person asked me for my thoughts after the game and I could only come up with one: surreal.

The one thing about the game that was not lucky was Tim Howard. He did it again like he has so many times before. I love that guy.

In hindsight the under strength USA roster took the pressure off the team completely and they were able to just go out and do there thing. They were SUPPOSED to use. All us experts predicted a terrible result. I find new ways to show I dont' know anything every day.

One of the people I felt happiest for last night after the game was Tab Ramos who was on the USA bench last night and had been on the other end of USA losses in Mexico as a player. His smile said it all.

It took me nearly 6 hours to define how I feel after such an unexpected and monumental USA win, that word is relief. Not joy or excitement. Relief that another streak has been broken. Lets just hope it doesn't take another 25 games for the USA to get a win in Mexico City.

You can't look past the fact that 6 players took the field for the USA last night that play professionally in Mexico. There is no doubt it my mind that helped them.

Can we also keep in mind that Mexico was pretty terrible last night. That played a big factor in the outcome too.

I kept thinking about how much the USA looked like Bob Bradley's USA last night.

Tim Howard looked sharp in the all white uniform.

US Soccer with a match report.

-Post game quotes from coach and players.

Ryan Madden of the Huffington Post with a great tale of his first trip to Azteca.

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated on the historic win.

Some player ratings:

-Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad.

-John Godfrey of the New York Times.

-Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

-Jeff Carlisle of ESPN.

-Avi Creditor of Sports Illustrated.

Video from US Soccer:

-Game highlights.

-Player post game reaction.

Next up for the USA is back to back World Cup qualifiers against Jamaica - Sep 7 in Kingston and Sep 11 in Columbus.

dN

Match + Scores:

-Wed Aug 15

Mexico 0-1 USA - USA goal by Michael Orozco.

Venue: Estadio Azteca

dN

USA Roster.

G:

S-Tim Howard - Everton

dnd-Sean Johnson - Chicago Fire

nu-Nick Rimando - Real Salt Lake

D:

nu-Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City

dnd-Steven Beithashour - San Jose Earthquakes

S-Geoff Cameron - Stoke City

S-Edgar Castillo - Tijuana

su-Michael Orozco - San Luis

S-Fabian Johnson - Hoffenheim

M:

su-DaMarcus Beasley - Puebla

S-Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake

su-Joe Corona - Tijuana

S-Maurice Edu - Rangers

S-Jermaine Jones - Schalke

S-Jose Torres - Pachuca

su-Brek Shea - Dallas

S-Danny Williams - Hoffenheim

su-Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F:

su-Terrence Boyd - Rapid Vienna

S-Landon Donovan - LA Galaxy

S-Herculez Gomez - Santos Laguna

dnd-Alan Gordon - San Jose Earthquakes

nu-Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes

S- starter

su- sub

nu- not used

dnd- did not dress

dN

Mexico roster.

G:

Memo Ochoa - Ajaccio

Alredo Talavera - Toluca

D:

Adrian Aldrete - America

Hugo Ayala - Tigres

Severo Meza - Monterrey

Hector Moreno - Espanyol

Jorge Nilo - Tigres

Enrique Perez - Morelia

Francisco Rodriguez - Stuttgart

M:

Pablo Barrera - Cruz Azul

Andres Guardado - Valencia

Edgar Lugo - Santos Laguna

Angel Reyna - Monterrey

Manuel Viniegrea - Tigres

Jesus Zavala - Monterrey

F:

Elias Hernandez - Tigres

Javier Hernandez - Manchester United

Aldo de Nigris - Monterrey

FACT OF THE DAY

Univision's broadcast of the Mexico-USA game was the top rated show of the night in America among Adults 18-49. They had 9.4 million viewers.

ENDERS

Lastly, we have this awesome photo that Maurice Edu posted last night on his Twitter feed of the USA team in the locker room after that surreal victory over Mexico. My fave part of this photo is Jermaine Jones channeling his inner Frank Booth.
