STARTERS

Trouble is a brewin'. Just about all of the Americans in the English Premiership are on teams that are in a deep hole, occupying 5 of the last 6 spots in the standings:

20th place - West Ham - Jonathan Spector

19th place - Wolverhampton - Marcus Hahneman

17th place - Fulham - Clint Dempsey & Eddie Johnson

16th place - Everton - Tim Howard

15th place - Aston Villa - Brad Friedel, Brad Guzan & Eric Lichaj.

*Bolton & Stuart Holden is the only one not in trouble, sitting in 6th.

dN

Monterrey & Santos Laguna will battle it out on Wed & Sat for the Mexican Primera Apertura Championship. Who ya got?

BIDDING TO HOST WORLD CUP 2018 & 2022

3 days until the rights to host the next 2 World Cups will be awarded.

dN

The announcement of the 2 host countries will be made live Thu Dec 2 at 9am Central on FIFA.com.

dN

Martin Samuel of the Daily Mail smashes the bid of Portugal & Spain, two countries on the verge of bankruptcy.

FIFA SCANDAL

With a rebel yell, he cried "More! More! More!"

And then he yawned cuz he doubted it would make any difference.

dN

German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung uncovers even more FIFA executive bribe taking, this time in the 90's. They name Ricardo Teixeira of Brazil, Nicolas Leoz of Paraguay and Issa Hayatou of Cameroon as taking some pretty big lumps of money from disastrous marketing company ISL. (In German)

dN

And will the shit will hit the fan tonight in England when a BBC investigative report show goes after FIFA?

Will there be a vote on Thursday?!?!?!?!?!?!

USA WORLD CUP 2022 BID

Jere Longman of the NY Times looks at what the USA could reap by winning this bid.

PODCASTS

The It's Called Soccer crew in Toronto do an audio interview with NASL commissioner Aaron Davidson.

-Enlightening.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

MLS TRADES/PLAYER MOVEMENT ETC

So in the aftermath of last week's Expansion Draft, let's see all the action our two new teams took with their growing rosters (8 of the 20 players were moved on quickly):

Portland

-Dax McCarty and allocation money were sent to DC United for Rodney Wallace and a 4th round pick.

-Anthony Wallace sold back to Colorado Rapids for allocation money.

-Arturo Alvarez traded to Real Salt Lake for a 2nd-round pick in the 2011 MLS Draft.

Vancouver

-Nathan Sturgis was sent to Toronto for superdraft pick

-Sanna Nyassi sent to Colorado Rapids for international player slot

-O'Brian White shipped off to Seattle Sounders for allocation money.

-Alejandro Moreno sold to Chivas USA for allocation money.

-Alan Gordon sold back to Chivas USA for allocation money.

CHICAGO FIRE

Charlie Corr of ESPN Chicago sees the Fire's exit door getting mighty crowded - are Ljungberg & Conde next?

-Collins John and Krzysztof Krol were released last week.

CD CHIVAS USA

Jeffrey King of MLSsoccer.com does a Q & A with the team's current top ranking exec or manager Stephen Hamilton.

DC UNITED

Steven Goff of the Washington Post reports that Ben Olsen is the new head coach of DCU.

-Can anything DCU pres Kevin Payne says can ever be trusted again after he repeated told anyone who asked that Olsen was NOT a candidate?

dN

Craig Stoufer of the Examiner gives us the view after Olsen's press conference today.

-Olsen was responsible for going out and getting Dax McCarty, who happens to fill a roll the team was pretty vacant on until now.

NEW YORK RED BULLS

Metrofanatic has a very nice tribute to a player who scored 62 big goals for the Bulls but is now on his way out the door - Thank You, Juan Pablo Angel.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer reports that a proposed state of the art training facility for the Red Bulls could be built in the semi-mythical soccer town of Kearny.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

The Quakers have announced that Geovanni not coming back for next season. He was good for them, but not at that price.

-The team also let contracts expire on Cornell Glen and Eduardo.

VANCOUVER WHITECAPS FC

Marc Weber of the Province on the team's securing fullback Wes Knight to a MLS contract, one of their prized possessions from 2nd Division soccer.

-The teams also signed their first player from their academy - midfielder Philippe Davies.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

-Sat Nov 27

Newcastle United Jets FC (Australia) 2-1 Los Angeles Galaxy - NJ goals by Sasho Petrovski & Labinot Haliti. LAG goal by Landon Donovan.

Venue: EnergyAustralia Stadium - Newcastle

Attendance: 23,317

MLS RUMORS

Robbie Keane anyone? Any takers? Hmmm, Vancouver, is that you over there? He's available.

dN

Soccer 365 with today's latest rumors involving Pavel Pardo, Julien Rodriguez, Jonathan Spector, Andy Najar, Mike Grella, Jozy Altidore, Tony Donatelli and many more.

SOCCER IN MINNESOTA

According to the Atlanta Soccer Blog the NSC Minnesota Stars will play the first game of the new season on April 9 at the Atlanta Silverbacks.

COLLEGE SOCCER

Here is the schedule for the Division I championship tournament:

THIRD ROUND

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Nov 28

Louisville 2-1 Ohio St

Dartmoutyh 1-2 UCLA

SMU 1-0 William & Mary

Michigain St 1-1 North Carolina - NC advances 5-4 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

-------------------------------------------

Akron 2-1 Indiana

Brown 0-2 California

South Carolina 1-3 Michigan

Penn St 0-1 Maryland

dN

A big shout-out to our friend-in-football Keeper Ken of Minneapolis who is an Akron alum, and whose father passed away last week. Ken is in Akron for the funeral and got to see his beloved Zips win on Sunday.

dN

Quarterfinals

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Dec 3

North Carolina v SMU

Venue: Fetzer Field - Chapell Hill NC

-Sat Dec 4

Louisville v UCLA

Venue: Cardinal Park Stadium - Louisville KY

Akron v California

Venue: Lee R Jackson Field - Akron OH

Maryland v Michigan

Venue: Ludwig Field - College Park MD

dN

Semifinals

-Fri Dec 10

NC/SMU winner v Lou/UCLA winner - 7:30pm or 10pm Central on ESPNU/2

Akr/Cal winner v Mar/Mich winner - 7:30pm or 10pm Central on ESPNU/2

Venue: Harder Stadium - Santa Barbara CA

dN

Final

-Sun Dec 12 - 3pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: Harder Stadium - Santa Barbara CA

USA U20 TEAM

The squad was part of the 3 team Torneo de las Americas in Kennesaw GA over Thanksgiving weekend.

-The USA drew with Colombia in Game 1, but lost 3-1 in a Penalty Kick Shootout.

-Then the USA drew with Mexico in Game 3, but lost 4-2 in a Penalty Kick Shootout.

dN

In the game against Mexico, the USA did not use any substitutions. Why would you fly players in from all over the world and not use them in a friendly? OK so maybe they are getting the team ready for World Cup qualifying, but come on, these are youth players we are talking about here. Get 'em on the field Thomas!

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 26

USA 1-1 Colombia - USA goal by Alex Zahavi.

-Sat Nov 27

Colombia ? Mexico - game ended in a tie but no word on score or who won on PKs.

-Sun Nov 28

USA 1-1 Mexico - USA goal by Gale Agbossoumonde.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to forward Tristan Bowen.

dN

Roster

G:

Eduardo Fernandez - Real Salt Lake AZ (USA)

Jonathan Kempin - Sporting Kansas City (USA)

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Estoril Praia (Portugal)

Bryan De La Fuente - Chivas USA (USA)

Greg Garza - Estoril Praia (Portugal)

Sebastian Ibeagha - Duke (USA)

Korey Veeder - Crystal Palace Baltimore (USA)

Parker Walsh - Karlsruher SC (Germany)

M:

Sebastian Lletget - West Ham (England)

Alex Molano - Dinamo Zagreb (Croatia)

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union (USA)

Moises Orozco - UANL Tigres (Mexico)

Dillon Powers - Notre Dame (USA)

Conor Shanosky - DC United (USA)

Alex Zahavi - Maccabi Haifa (Israel)

Cesar Zamora - Chivas USA (USA)

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls (USA)

Tristan Bowen - Los Angeles Galaxy (USA)

Fuad Ibrahim - Toronto FC (Canada)

Omar Salgado - No Club

USA U17 TEAM

They will play 3 international friendlies in Phoenix AZ this week.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Dec 1

USA v South Korea

-Fri Dec 3

USA v Brazil

-Sun Dec 5

USA v Turkey

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

The Guardian reports that Marcus Hahneman has been replaced as the #1 in goal at Wolverhampton. (Thanks to Bart of the tip off)

-Does this mean we could see him in a Portland uniform come January?

dN

Stuart Holden did not play for Bolton this weekend due to a thigh muscle strain. No word on the severity.

dN

The Independent has a big feature story on Holden.

dN

Sacha Kljestan & Anderlecht moved into first place in Belgium.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

BELGIUM - Pro League

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - went the full 90, getting a Yellow Card, as they won 4-1 at home over Charleroi.

DENMARK - Superliga

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - played the whole game as they drew 1-1 at home against Sonderjyske.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - played the entire game, grabbing their only goal, and a Yellow Card, as they drew 1-1 at home against Birmingham.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - in goal for a 2-4 home loss to Arsenal.

Tim Howard - Everton - in the goal for the whole 1-4 home beatdown from West Brom.

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - came on as a sub in the 73rd minute as they tied 1-1 at home with Birmingham.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - played the full match as they drew 1-1 at Nancy.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

DaMarcus Beasley - Hannover - came on as a sub in the 84th minute of a 3-0 home win over Freiburg.

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - played the full game but lost 4-1 at Dortmund.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the distance as they beat Freiburg 3-0 at home.

Jermaine Jones - Schalke - started but got a Yellow Card and was subbed out at half time as they lost 5-0 at Kaiserslautern.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Luis Robles - Karlsruher - in goal as they rolled 4-0 at home over Rot Weiss Oberhausen.

David Yelldell - Duisburg - went the full 90 as they won 0-2 at Hertha.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the full 90 as they won 5-2 at home over Fortuna Sittard.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - League Cup - Quarterfinals

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Wed Dec 1 at Birmingham

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - Wed Dec 1 at Birmingham

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - Wed Dec 1 at Birmingham

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Wed Dec 1 v Manchester United

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE - Group Stage - Matchday 5

Jozy Altidore - Villarreal - Thu Dec 2 v Dinamo Zagreb

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - Wed Dec 1 at Zenit

MEXICO

Laguilla (Playoffs)

Semifinal

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Thu Nov 25

UNAM Pumas 0-0 Monterrey

America 1-2 Santos Laguna

2nd Leg

-Sun Nov 28

Monterrey 2-0 UNAM Pumas - Mon advances 2-0 on aggregate.

Santos Laguna 3-3 America - SL advances 5-4 on aggregate.

dN

Final

1st Leg

-Wed Dec 1

Santos Laguna v Monterrey

-Sat Dec 4

Monterrey v Santos Laguna

THE CARIBBEAN

Caribbean Cup 2010 - The final group stage is going on now and then the knock-out rounds through to the Final that will all be played in Fort-de-France, Martinique from Nov 26 - Dec 5.

dN

Trinidad & Tobago is the first team OUT. I would guess they (along with Jamaica) were a favorite coming in. Slappy Jack is probably asking the players to send him money seeing as their will be no bonuses to snap up. And head coach Russell Latapy is not off to a good start.

Cuba has advanced to the knock out stage.

dN

Group H

ADV-6 Cuba (+3)

4 Grenada (+1)

1 Martinique (-1)

OUT-0 Trinidad & Tobago (-3)

Group I

3 Jamaica (+2)

1 Guadaloupe (0)

1 Guyana (0)

0 Antigua & Barbuda (-2)

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 26

Trinidad & Tobago 0-2 Cuba

Martinique 1-1 Grenada

-Sat Nov 27

Guyana 1-1 Guadaloupe

Jamaica 3-1 Antigua & Barbuda

-Sun Nov 28

Grenada 1-0 Trinidad & Tobago

Martinique 0-1 Cuba

-Mon Nov 29

Antigua & Barbuda v Guyana

Guadaloupe v Jamaica

-Tue Nov 30

Cuba v Grenada

Martinique v Trinidad & Tobago

-Wed Dec 1

Guadaloupe v Antigua & Barbuda

Guyana v Jamaica

ENGLAND

du Nord recap: Manchester United & Arsenal won this weekend, moving them up to #1 & #2 respectively while Chelsea tied to fall from the top spot.

dN

The highlight of the European weekend was the sensational 5 goal performance from Dimitar Berbatov of Manchester United!

dN

The Guardian with five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

dN

The League Cup Quarterfinals are this mid-week.

-All 3 big teams from Birmingham are still in the tournament!

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Nov 30

Arsenal v Wigan Athletic

West Ham United v Manchester United

-Wed Dec 1

Birmingham City v Aston Villa

Ipswich Town v West Bromwich Albion

SPAIN

du Nord recap: The biggie is on Monday with Barca hosting Real Madrid, otherwise, Villarreal, Espanyol and Valencia won to remain a distant 3rd, 4th and 5th.

dN

FIFA.com does a Q & A with Real Madrid's already legendary manager Jose Mourinho.

FRANCE

du Nord recap: #2 Brest saw their game postponed due to bad weather, which is bad news for them as Marseille won big leaping them over former #1 Montpellier (now 4th) and are the new top dogs. Lille & PSG stayed right behind but failed to take the top place themselves as they both tied their games. Chokers.

GERMANY

du Nord recap: Dortmund continue to pile it on at #1, winning for the 5th game in a row, while Mainz win to remain second, and don't look now but Bayern win again and move up to 5th. IF they don't finish 1st or 2nd this season I will eat Uli Hoeness's size 14 double E shoe. The other big story is Schalke's lack of ability to get away from the bottom, losing badly again and sitting in 15th place, one above relegation. "Paging Felix Magath. A Mr. Grim Reaper is holding for you on line 2."

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on Hamburg, under-skilled managers, plus the rest of the weekend in the Bundesliga.

dN

Koln has shown the door to head coach Michael Meier who was in this 6th season at the team. He insists he was not distracted by talk of making another Halloween movie.

ITALY

du Nord recap: Some much needed luck and quality came Inter's way for a change, they move up to 5th after winning big while #1 Milan tied, #2 Lazio tied, #3 Juventus tied, and #4 Napoli lost!

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Palermo's strong season so far, and the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

COPA SUDAMERICANA

Goias of Brazil and Independiente of Argentina will meet in the Final.

dN

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 24

Palmeiras 1-2 Goias - Series ends tied 2-2 with Goi advancing on the away goals tie breaker.

-Thu Nov 25

Independiente 2-1 Liga de Quito - Series ends tied 4-4 with Ind advancing on the away goals tie breaker.

dN

Final

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Dec 1

Goias v Independiente

-Wed Dec 8

Independiente v Goias

ARGENTINA

Just 3 rounds left in the Primera Apertura. Here are the leaders and who they face next:

36 Estudiantes - Last: Sun Nov 28 W 1-2 at Independiente - Next: Fri Dec 3 v Argentinos Juniors

(4)31 Velez Sarsfield - Next: Tue Nov 30 v Tigre - Next: Sat Dec 4 at Godoy Cruz

28 Arsenal de Sarandi - Last: Fri Nov 26 W 2-1 v San Lorenzo - Next: Wed Dec 1 at Olimpio

27 Godoy Cruz - Last: Fri Nov 26 W 1-3 at Gimnasia la Plata - Next: Sat Dec 4 v Velez Sarsfield

(4)23 Colon - Next: Mon Nov 29 at Argentinos Juniors - Next: Fri Dec 3 v River Plate

25 Racing Club - Last: Sat Nov 27 W 1-2 at Banfield - Next: Thu Dec 2 v Gimnasia la Plata

22 All Boys - Last: Sat Nov 27 L 2-1 at Quilmes - Next: Thu Dec 2 v Banfield

25 River Plate - Last: Sun Nov 28 W 1-0 v Olimpio - Next: Fri Dec 3 at Colon

25 Newells Old Boys - Last: Sun Nov 28 W 1-0 v Boca Juniors - Next: Sat Dec 4 at San Lorenzo
