It's Day 317 of 2017.

Briana Scurry will be inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame. Huge congrats to her.

dN

The LAFC expansion draft is coming on Tue Dec 12: "Clubs may protect up to 11 players. LAFC may select up to 5 players. Only 1 player can be drafted from a club."

dN

USMNT

My USMNT Notes:

I know most of you didn't care, much less watch. So I am your surrogate. I always care and always watch. If you feel that makes me an idiot, well I don't think its anywhere near the top of the list of what makes me an idiot.

I will take a tie score against #3 ranked Portugal.

USA created 7 or 8 solid chances.

Weston McKennie was the best player for the USA.

McKennie scored a great goal in the 21st min. With a nice move past a defender and a great low near post strike that fooled the keeper.

Tyler Adams, while good, was not nearly as fast or quick as I thought he was.

Ethan Horvath with a horrendous botch that allowed the Port-u-goal.

Cameron Carter-Vickers was strong at the back.

The USA defense allowed only a couple clear/clean chances for Port.

Both teams traded sustained pressure. Entertaining to watch.

Danny Williams was the USA captain, but was not very impressive, again. (OK, he was fine, but like I said, not impressive.)

Kellyn Acosta had his best game for the USA since Mexico City in June. He didn't have a great season in MLS or many other strong showings with the USA in 2017.

Good Game: Brooks, Carter-Vickers, Lichaj, McKennie, Acosta

OK Game: Hamid, Yedlin, Miazga, Villafana, Williams, Adams, Bedoya, Agudelo, Gooch, Sapong, Dwyer

Bad Game: Horvath

For Portugal - I thought 23 year old forward Goncalo Paciencia looked great. Poised and powerful. He is currently on loan from Porto to Vitoria.

Media:

Match recap. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

A first step forward by the USMNT. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Who is Weston McKennie and where did he come from? By Travis Clark for Four Four Two.

USMNT turning the page in Portugal. By San Lehr for the Guardian.

Friendly Schedule:

-Tue Nov 14

Portugal 1-1 USA - USA goal by Weston McKennie.

Estadio Dr. Magalhaes Pessoa, Leiria

Game highlights:

To new beginnings ????

Relive the #USMNT's 2017 finale away to Portugal » https://t.co/JYT0oWKUTd pic.twitter.com/ljrJ2szscp

— U.S. Soccer (@ussoccer) November 15, 2017

USA Roster

G: Jesse Gonzalez - Dallas, Bill Hamid - Midtjylland, Ethan Horvath - Club Brugge

D: John Brooks - Wolfsburg, Cameron Carter-Vickers - Sheffield United, Eric Lichaj - Nottingham Forest, Matt Miazga - Vitesse, Tim Ream - Fulham, Jorge Villafana - Santos Laguna, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle United

M: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Weston McKennie - Schalke, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Danny Williams - Huddersfield

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Orlando City, CJ Sapong - Philadelphia Union, Josh Sargent - St. Louis Scott Gallagher

C: Dave Sarachan

Some people are very very upset that Bruce Arena was on Fox Sports yesterday as a pre and post game analyst. I honestly don't care either way. I always like to hear him speak. But many do not want him to come out of a deep dark cave for a very long time. I understand that.

dN

WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

If you think people in the USA are pissed off about missing the World Cup next summer you should see the inferno raging in Italy. By Rory Smith for the New York Times.

Australia + Denmark advance while Honduras + Ireland recede.

Australia, Croatia, Denmark, Egypt, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Tunisia have qualified for the World Cup.

Only 1 spot left that will be filled on Wed night.

Final elimination rounds Schedule/Results:

Inter-Federation

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 15

Australia 3-1 Honduras Aus advances to WC 3-1 on agg.

Peru v New Zealand (0-0) - 8:15pm CT on beIN

UEFA

-Swi qualifies for World Cup

-Cro qualifies for World Cup

-Swe qualifies for World Cup

-Tue Nov 14

Ireland 1-5 Denmark Den advances to WC 5-1 on agg.

dN

The owners of FC Cincinnati have said they will pay for their new stadium in full, but are asking the city to upgrade roads and infrastructure around the stadium. By Paul Daugherty for the Cincinnati Enquirer.

dN

Lemon Scented: du Nord Music Mix Vol 147 (download + extract)

dN

MLS PLAYOFFS - SEMIFINALS

Toronto tried to appeal the red card suspension of Jozy Altidore from the 1st Leg of the Semifinals and were denied. As it should be.

Games return next Tuesday.

dN

MLS

Atlanta United will have their own USL team next season, playing out of a baseball stadium in Gwinnett county (northeast of Atlanta.)

dN

USL

Harrisburg City Islanders has a new name and image - Penn FC.

The logo is a bit confusing. Is that a P? An R?.

There is also a new component to the team owners ship with worldwide youth academy Rush Soccer buying a piece of the team.

dN

MEXICO - COPA MX

Semifinals Schedule:

-Wed Nov 15

Monterrey v America - 6:30pm CT on UniDeportes

-Tue Nov 21

Atlante v Pachuca

The Bird Is The Word
