It's Day 217 of 2016.

I was on the radio yesterday with Patrick Reusse (ESPN 1500am) talking about the lovely rising of soccer in the Twin Cities. Starts at 12:50. [AUDIO] We had a great time.

Chelsea beat AC Milan 3-1 last night at the grand opening of the Jawa Sancrawler aka US Bank Stadium in downtown Minneapolis in front of a sellout crowd of over 64,000. Fantastic.

At the same time Minnesota United was tying Puerto Rico 1-1 north of the city at NSC Stadium in front of 6,100. Respectable.

dN

Nelson Rodriguez: "If they are booing the message go find another team to support."

The Chicago Fire have been a huge failure on the field for too many seasons now, but they are taking a firm stand against the awful chant of "Puto" that we hear ringing around way too many soccer stadiums on a regular basis. Team president Nelson Rodriguez has basically said, "If you want to yell that offensive slur then get the hell out of our stadium." Great job by the Fire boss. By John Kass of the Chicago Tribune.

Rodriguez initially took his stand prior to a recent game on the microphone in the center circle of the stadium! Not behind a keyboard like too many of us do. Some people had the gall to boo Rodriguez.

dN

USWNT Olympic Tournament - group stage:

USA with that important first game victory. Here are some quick post-game comments. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

Brief game highlights. [VIDEO] From NBC Sports.

It gets a lot tougher for the USA now with #3 ranked France up next. (USA is #1 in the world)

Match schedule:

-Wed Aug 3

USA 2-0 New Zealand - USA goals by Carli Lloyd + Alex Morgan.

-Sat Aug 6

USA v France - 3pm CT on NBCSN

-Tue Aug 9

USA v Colombia - 5pm CT on NBCSN

dN

Big names on the move in MLS - Ale Bedoya, Charlie Davies, Sebastian Le Toux, Giles Barnes and others.

Lots going down yesterday on the final day of the international transfer window, these are the significant transactions:

Chicago bought forward Luis Solignac from Colorado.

Chicago signed 21 year old Armenian forward David Arshakyan from Trakai.

Colorado bought forward Sebastian Le Toux from Philadelphia.

Dallas traded for centerback Norberto Paparatto from Portland.

Dallas signed on loan 25 year old Brazilian forward Getterson from J. Malucelli.

Houston signed on loan 24 year old Costa Rican centerback Keyner Brown from Herediano.

Houston signed on loan 20 Year Old Colombian midfielder Yair Arboleda from Independiente Santa Fe.

Red Bulls signed on loan 27 year old Israeli forward Omer Damari from RB Leipzig.

Red Bulls signed 26 year old Austrian forward/winger Daniel Royer from Midtjylland.

Orlando traded for attacking midfielder Matias Perez Garcia from San Jose.

Philadelphia signed 29 year old American midfielder Alejandro Bedoya from Nantes.

Philadelphia bought forward Charlie Davies from New England.

Portland signed 23 year old Nigerian centerback Gbenga Arokoyo from Gaziantepspor.

Portland signed 30 year old English centerback Steven Taylor from Newcastle.

San Jose traded for midfielder Darwin Ceren from Orlando.

Seattle signed 30 year old Uruguayan midfielder Alvaro Fernandez from Gimnasia. (He had previously played with Seattle from 2010 to 2014)

Vancouver bought forward Giles Barnes from Houston.

dN

The latest in the chaos that is the sale of Fabian Castillo by Dallas to Trabzonspor? There is no deal done. Dallas says there will be no deal and they want their player back (he flew to Turkey.):

Trabzonspor responded with this official looking Tweet. Basically saying to Dallas, "He is ours. Suuuuuckeeeeeers!":

pic.twitter.com/gXPMvKymnM

— Trabzonspor Kulübü (@Trabzonspor) August 4, 2016

dN

Aron Johnannsson trained with Werder Bremen today. First time since last... when... September, October? Damn. He was out with ankle injury. The USA could use another forward too.

dN

BTLP: du Nord Music Mix Vol 90 (download + extract)

dN

Attn Freaks And Geeks: The Shaggs infamous album Philosophy Of The World to be reissued.

dN

My Minnesota Notes:

Game highlights [VIDEO]

The goals for both teams came on huge errors from the opponent.

A miserable back pass by Justin Davis to a wide open PR striker Hector Ramos allowed Ramos to walk in on net and pick his spot for an easy goal.

A Minn corner kick forced an own goal by PR's Michael Kharif.

Two great scoring chances by Danny Cruz and Justin Davis forced amazing saves out of PR keeper David Meves.

Give PR credit, they had a simple defensive game plan and Minn could not adjust to overcome it.

Despite decent effort from some of the Minnesota players, overall it was a piss poor performance by the home team.

Minnesota is so close to the top of the league, but they just can't seem to put together a full game (much less a run of games) to get over the hump.

dN

The 5 goals Indy scored last night is an all time high for the 2 1/2 year old club. Slump busted!

dN

NASL Week 16 mid-week match schedule:

-Wed Aug 3

Minnesota United 1-1 Puerto Rico

Indy Eleven 5-2 Jacksonville Armada

Coming up this weekend:

-Sat Aug 6

Jacksonville Armada v Carolina RailHawks

Puerto Rico v Edmonton

Indy Eleven v Ottawa Fury

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Fort Lauderdale Strikers

Minnesota United v Miami

-Sun Aug 7

New York Cosmos v Rayo OKC

dN

Overheard during last nights Minnesota game:

Me: Why do we pass the ball back to a keeper who can't kick the ball very well?

Dave: Why do we HAVE a keeper who can't kick the ball very well?

(Score: Me 0-1 Dave)

dN

Rayo OKC (owned by Spanish team Rayo Vallecano) has been rumored to be in huge financial trouble for weeks now, and reports from Oklahoma are not good. Franco Sui Yuan of Telemundo OK said yesterday that things were looking real bad:

Spaniards have advised #RayoOKC staff and players that changes are coming. People could get fired, players might have to move in together...

— Franco Sui Yuan (@francosy) August 4, 2016

More on Yuan's Twitter feed.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League group stage.

Dallas begins play tonight at home against Nicaraguan champs Esteli.

Last night: Red Bulls rolled, Portland eeked, Pumas accomplished, Monterrey pummeled.

Matchday 1 schedule:

-Tue Aug 2

Central (T+T) 0-1 Vancouver Whitecaps (CAN)

Pachuca (MEX) 1-0 Olimpia (HON)

-Wed Aug 3

W Connection (T+T) 2-4 Pumas UNAM (MEX)

New York Red Bulls (USA) 3-0 Antigua GFC (GUA)

Portland Timbers (USA) 2-1 Dragón (SAL)

Don Bosco (HAI) 0-3 Monterrey (MEX)

-Thu Aug 4

Dallas (USA) v Real Estelí (NIC)

Plaza Amador v Herediano (CR)

Univision Deportes is the television broadcaster in the USA.

Facebook is showing the games in English. Go to the CONCACAF Champions League page.

dN

English Premier League team-by-team season previews. From the Guardian:

Hull City

Leicester

(see previous day's blog entries for other team previews)

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

Up Next: Fri Aug 5 v Nimes

dN

French club Stade Rennais is owned by Salma Hayek's husband Francois-Henri Pinault. His company Kering also owns shoe, uniform, and training gear company Puma.

And let me tell you something, Salma loves her futbol! From Jimmy Kimmel live. [VIDEO]

dN

A Satanic priest gave the opening invocation at a recent city council meeting in Washington DC, (unintended) (not so much) hilarity ensues. [VIDEO] From the Washington Post. Thanks Steve for the link.

The Bird Is The Word
