STARTERS

A huge blast of recognition must go out to Kristine Lilly today. She has retired from the game after only 352 caps for the USA. Yes, 352! That is staggering. Best wishes to her!

TEAM USA

The annual January training camp for young and out-of season players with national team potential begins tomorrow Tue Jan 4 in Carson CA and ends with a friendly game on Sat Jan 22 at the Home Depot Center.

dN

The Shin Guardian has a Q & A with striker Teal Bunbury.

dN

Official team blog

dN

Match & Score:

-Sat Jan 22

USA v Chile - 8pm Central on TV tbd.

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

ENGLAND

The Premier League is finishing up 4 rounds of play in an 11 day span. Unreal. Here are some of the marquee games from the clubs to see.

dN

Standings (as of Wed Jan 5):

44 Man United (20 played)

42 Man City (22 played)

40 Arsenal (21 played)

36 Tottenham (20 played)

- - - - - -

35 Chelsea (21 played)

33 Sunderland (22 played)

30 Bolton (22 played)

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Jan 5

Arsenal 0-0 Man City

Wolverhampton 1-0 Chelsea

Everton 2-1 Tottenham

dN

And here is what our America players are up against during this stretch:

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Last: Tue Jan 4 started and went 87 minutes, scoring a goal, as they won 3-0 v West Brom.

-Currently in 14th place with 22 points from 21 games.

Jamie Jackson of the Guardian talks to Dempsey about their big win yesterday and what its going to take to avoid another relegation battle.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Next: Wed Jan 5 in goal for a 0-1 loss v Sunderland.

-Currently in 18th place with 21 points from 21 games.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - Next: Wed Jan 5 on the bench as they got a shocking win 1-0 v Chelsea.

-Currently in 17th place with 21 points from 21 games.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - Next: Wed Jan 5 out with a hamstring injury as they drew 1-1 v Wigan.

-Currently in 7th place with 30 points from 22 games.

Tim Howard - Everton - Next: Wed Jan 5 went the distance as they won 2-1 v Tottenham.

-Currently in 11th place with 25 points from 21 games.

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Last: Tue Jan 4 came on as a sub in the 87th minute of a win 3-0 v West Brom.

-Currently in 14th place with 22 points from 21 games.

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - Next: Wed Jan 5 on the bench as they lost 0-1 v Sunderland.

-Currently in 18th place with 21 points from 21 games.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Next: Wed Jan 5 on the bench as they lost badly 5-0 at Newcastle.

-Currently in 20th place with 20 points from 22 games.

HMMMMM, VERY INTERESTING

Lawrence Donegan of the Guardian on Beckham's proposed move to England via another loan deal. Even this English newspaper thinks Bex is being very uncool to the Galaxy faithful.

FACT OF THE DAY

US Spanish language radio network Futbol de Primera has named Landon Donovan as their Player Of The Year for an astounding 7th time.

WHY NOT!

The Associated Press reports that Bayern Munich president (and full time blowhard) Uli Hoeness has called FIFA's awarding of the World Cup's to Russia and Qatar a joke. Via Yahoo.

MLS/USA & RELATED RUMORS

Soccer365 with today's batch of red hot rumors featuring Kenny Cooper, Brian Jensen, Luca Toni, Mikael Antoine-Curier, Marek Mintal, David Witteveen, Carlos Vela and much more.

dN

Soccerway reports that 33 year old midfielder Ousmane Dabo from Lazio is making a move to MLS.

-The one good thing about this player is that he is quoted as saying he knows he will not make a lot of money here. Interesting. Its always refreshing to hear from a player that is not delusional.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

ESPN2 will again show the first round of the SuperDraft. But they will do no preview coverage for it on their network, so only you and I will know its airing.

-The SuperDraft has been cut from 4 rounds down to 3 this year.

CD CHIVAS USA

New head coach Robin Fraser has hired long time MLS & USA veteran defender Greg Vanney as an assistant. Vanney had been the director of Real Salt Lake's youth development program in Arizona.

dN

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze on the hiring of Fraser.

COLUMBUS CREW

Shawn Mitchell of the Dispatch gives us the basics on the Crew's preseason plan.

-Their first action of the season will be at home in the Champions League on Tue Feb 22 against Real Salt Lake.

SPORTING KANSAS CITY SC

The Shin Guardian has a Q & A with striker Teal Bunbury.

dN

Here is the Sporks preseason schedule:

Jan 24 – Medical exams at Swope Park Training Center, KC MO

Jan 25-28 – Training in Kansas City

Jan 31 – Feb 15 - Training at Reach 11 Sports Complex, Phoenix AZ

Feb 16 – Feb 20 - Team returns to Kansas City

Feb 21 – Mar 13 - Training at Reach 11 Sports Complex, Phoenix AZ

Mar 14 – Team returns to Kansas City

Mar 19 – Season opener at Chivas USA

dN

Thad Bell of The Back Post does a Q & A with head coach Peter Vermes.

LA GALAXY

The team has officially signed right fullback Frankie Hejduk.

dN

And they have also signed a new deal for centerback Gregg Berhalter to stay on the field for another season, but with the added title of assistant coach.

REAL SALT LAKE

The Tribune has RSL's basic preseason outline.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

David Falk of the Examiner does a Q & A with new Sounders fullback Danny Earls.

-He came to the team this offseason from Colorado where he played very little last season.

TORONTO FC

The teams new management set up will look like this:

-Paul Mariner - General Manager

-Aron Winter - Head Coach

-Bob de Klerk - Assistant Coach

-They will be introduced at a press conference on Thursday.

dN

TFC will be heading to Turkey in February for some preseason training and friendlies.

USA U20 TEAM

The team is holding another training camp right now (until the 13th) as they get closer to World Cup qualifying (early April.) This camp will run Jan 2-13 in Ft Lauderdale FL.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to Perry Kitchen.

USA U17 TEAM

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad with a wild story on former USA U17 player Dustin Corea who switched to playing for El Salvador, but never did the FIFA paperwork that would allow him to change national teams, therefore most likely causing El Salvador to be disqualified from the U20 World Cup.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Clint Waddell of Yanks Abroad on the possible moves for American defensive midfielder Jermaine Jones away from Schalke.

dN

The 3rd Round of the English FA Cup will be played this coming weekend, and 14 Americans have the potential to take the field. I will post their schedule here on Friday.

dN

Nick Leyden also of Yanks Abroad with an update on Greg Garza at Estoril.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

SPAIN - Copa del Rey

Jozy Altidore - Thu Jan 6 v Valencia

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Coming Up:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Isaac Acuna - Queretaro - Fri Jan 7 v Tigres UANL

Daniel Antunez - Estudiantes Tecos - Fri Jan 7 at Cruz Azul

Jonathan Bornstein - Tigres UANL - Fri Jan 7 at Queretaro

Edgar Castillo - Puebla - Sun Jan 9 v Guadalajara

Herculez Gomez - Pachuca - Sun Jan 9 at America

Sonny Guadarrama - Atlante - Sat Jan 8 at Santos Laguna

Sammy Ochoa - Estudiantes Tecos - Fri Jan 7 at Cruz Azul

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - Sun Jan 9 at Puebla

Jose Torres - Pachuca - Sun Jan 9 at America

LIGA DE ASCENSO (2nd Div)

Joe Benny Corona - Tijuana - Fri Jan 7 at Universidad Guadalajara

Joaquin Hernandez - Indios - off this round

Marco Vidal - Leon - Sat Jan 8 v Atlante II

MEXICO

Mexico's 2011 Primera Clausura season kicks off on Thursday with Necaxa hosting Jaguares. Here is the full schedule for opening weekend.

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Jan 6

Necaxa v Chiapas Jaguares

-Fri Jan 7

Cruz Azul v Estudiantes Tecos

Queretaro v UANL Tigres

Monterrey v San Luis

-Sat Jan 8

Santos Laguna v Atlante

Atlas v Morelia

-Sun Jan 9

Toluca v UNAM Pumas

Puebla v Guadalajara

America v Pachuca

ENGLAND

The deal is all but completed for Manchester City to buy Bosnian striker Edin Dzeko from German team Wolfsburg for several hefty boxes full of unmarked large-denomination euro notes.

-Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tells us who Edin Dzeko is.

dN

The 3rd Round of the FA Cup will be played this weekend. Here is the match schedule.

SPAIN

COPA DEL REY - Round of 32

Coruna, Sevilla, and Barca advanced, with 5 more doing the same on Thursday.

2nd Leg

-Wed Jan 5

Deportivo La Coruna 3-1 Cordoba - DLC advances 4-2 on aggregate.

Athletic Bilbao 1-1 Barcelona - series ends tied 1-1, so Bar advances on the away goal tie breaker.

Malaga 0-3 Sevilla - Sev advances 8-3 on aggregate.

-Thu Jan 6

Villarreal v Valencia (0-0)

Mallorca v Almeria (3-4)

Espanyol v Atletico Madrid (0-1)

Getafe v Real Betis (2-1)

Levante v Real Madrid (0-8)

ASIA

The Asian Cup is set for Jan 7-29, 2011 in Qatar.

-4 groups of 4 will play round robins, then one-off knock out stages.

-Japan, Australia and South Korea are of course the favorites, but the last two are in the same group meaning one will have a tougher road to the final.
