So last month Montreal put in a bid for a new MLS franchise in 2011. Then last Friday we got word from MLS commissioner Donald U. Garber that Montreal had withdrawn their bid. A little later we got clarification from MLS that the bid had been rejected. Yesterday in Montreal bidder Joey Saputo of the USL First Division Montreal Impact said he had not withdrawn the bid, and was caught off guard that MLS would make that wild announcement, so he had a press conference to state his case. The Montreal Gazette was there. It turns out they never even bid the full $40 million the league set as the minimum. He thinks it's too much. Why did he bid then? Oops. Guess that ended your bid right there buddy. Over and out from Montreal.

Major League Soccer

Final

Match & Score:

-Sun Nov 23

Columbus Crew 3-1 Red Bull New York - CC goals by Alejandro Moreno, Chad Marshall and Guillermo Barroas Schelotto. NYRB goal by John Wolyniec.

Attendance: 27,000

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

My thoughts on the final:

-We had some fantastic seats: In the upper deck, just south of the midfield stripe, on the east side, right smack dab in the front row!!! How cool is that! Special thanks to Dan who hooked us up!

-We could not see the jet flyover! They went just east of the stadium, not directly over it. Bastards. I love the jet flyover. The parachuters who dropped in with the game ball are OK.

-I was very happy to see Chris Leitch of NY get booked in the 4th minute for that nasty hack he put on Robbie Rogers. Waaaaaay too many referee's give a stern warning on those early fouls but not the booking, and then the TV announcers usually follow it up by saying something like "The referee made a good decision to give the player a talking to. You can't give out a Yellow that early in the game." Oh really? I think they let people get away with too much crap early in the game!

-New York had 3 clear chances and 2 half chances at goal before Columbus scored the first goal.

-I did not think Alejandro Moreno's shot was going in for goal 1. And when I watched the replay it was almost as if Danny Cepero's tip of the shot game it the spin that took it into the far post. If Denny Terrio had never touched it, I don't know if it would have have gone in.

-That Dane Richards to John Wolyniec combo for NY's only goal was a thing of beauty. It was all about perfect timing on the pass, and perfect placement on the shot. Excellent work!

-But it only took 87 seconds for Columbus to right back down the field and regain the lead!

-Why did NYRB not bring more offense into the game after going down 2-1? Why did Mike Magee not play? They only used 2 subs!!!

-When Schelotto put his shot off the bar I thought that if it had gone in we might be looking at one of the great MLS Cup performances ever by a single player.

-And then Frankie Hejduk makes the spectacular look ugly as Schelotto loops a perfect pass into the box for Frankie to head home. We wondered where Frankie came from on that play. It seemed like he came up from a trap door in the turf! Wow.

-How great was it to see Big Sig get that Cup win in front of his old bosses how canned him back in 2004 when the Galaxy sat in first place! He has risen to the top again, and they have sunk all the way to the bottom below 4 expansion teams!!

-The biggest surprise of the whole game came afterward when I went down deep into the northeast corner of the stadium to feel the celebration of the Columbus Crew fans - there was almost no energy. Yes they were smiling ear to ear, but they could not keep a song or a chant going for more than a line or two and it would die out due to lack of enthusiasm. It was very weird. My friends and I all looked at each other asking "What is going on?" I know that if it was my team there is no way my body would have left me stop singing to dancing for hours much let minutes after the game ended. I don't want to say they were subdued, just not going insane like I expected them to be.

-How about the story of Pat Noonan. Play's through 4 straight MLS Cup losses with New England, leaves the team for Norway in the off season, comes back to MLS in the summer, but signs with Columbus, plays a limited role down the stretch, sits on the bench in the final, but is now finally part of a MLS Cup winning team. More weirdness abounds.

-Columbus did an amazing job of eliminating the threat of Juan Pablo Angel and Dave Van Den Bergh throughout more of the game! That made an enormous difference.

MLS Team News

CHICAGO FIRE

How about that frickin Cuauhtemoc Blanco! He is loaned out to Santos and wastes no time is just tearing it up in leg 1 of the playoffs as he leads them to a 3-1 win over San Luis. Wow!

HOUSTON DYNAMO

Stuart Holden & Geoff Cameron are not available for Wednesday night's CONCACAF Champions League due to Yellow Card accumulation.

KANSAS CITY WIZARDS

The Wiz bought forward Adam Cristman from New England. Cristman had a good start this season, then injured his foot and never played again. The Wiz also sent a draft pick to NER as part of the deal.

LOS ANGELES GALAXY

The Gals signed forward Jovan Kirovski from San Jose, then promptly put him on the list of players that Seattle can pick from in the Expansion Draft on Wednesday. He cost LA a future draft pick of unknown value.

NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION

The team has sold forward Adam Cristman to Kansas City. He got off to a good start this season, then injured his foot and never played again. The Rev's will also get a draft pick out of the deal.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

San Jose sent forward Jovan Kirovski off to the LA Galaxy in exchange for a potentil future draft pick.

GENERAL

The set up of teams and the league will change slightly next season. Here are those changes:

-15 teams with the addition of Seattle.

-Games will start the weekend of March 21, a week earlier than this year.

-Playoffs will revert back to 2007 format with the top 2 in the East & West automatically getting spots and the next 4 best records regardless of conference will get in. This year it was 3 from each conf and the 2 next best.

-Roster sizes will change from 28 down to 24, but the senior rosters will increase from 18 to 20, leaving more money for each player -although if those 4 lost roster spots were at the developmental roster minimum that would only add another $50,000 total to be spread around.

-The Reserve Division has been eliminated after 3 years.

MLS Post Season Awards

2008 MLS Best XI:

G:

Jon Busch - Chicago Fire

D:

Jimmy Conrad - Kansas City Wizards

Bakary Soumare - Chicago Fire

Chad Marshall - Columbus Crew

M:

Cuauhtemoc Blanco - Chicago Fire

Guillermo Barros Schelotto - Columbus Crew

Robbie Rogers - Columbus Crew

Shalrie Joseph - New England Revolution

Sasha Kljestan - Chivas USA

F:

Kenny Cooper - FC Dallas

Landon Donovan - Los Angeles Galaxy

Here is a MLS backstage video with some of those 11.

The 2008 du Nord Best 11 is listed at the top of the left hand column. Which team of the two do you think would win a match? I think my team would roll!!!!

MLS Seattle Expansion News

David Falk at the Goal Seattle Blog has the first images of the Sounders uniforms for next season. I saw one of them walking around MLS Cup on Sunday myself - it was the woman in the picture with short brown hair and big sunglasses.

SuperLiga

Below are the MLS entrants for next years tournament. We now wait for the FMF to announce their teams.

-Chicago Fire

-Chivas USA

-Kansas City Wizards

-New England Revolution (defending champs)

These MLS teams are the 4 who finished with the best records after the 4 who got a spot in the CONCACAF Champions League.

Team USA

US Soccer has audio of a press conference with coach Bob Bradley and federation president Sunil Gulati after the draw for the final round of CONCACAF World Cup qualifying, and the Confederations Cup. Download or listen here.

Here is our teams official schedule so far for 2009:

Friendly

Sat Jan 24 USA v Sweden - Home Depot Center - Carson, CA - 4:30pm central on FSC

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying

Wed Feb 11 USA v Mexico - everything else TBA

Sat Mar 28 USA at El Salvador - everything else TBA

Wed Apr 01 USA v Trinidad & Tobago - everything else TBA

Wed Jun 03 USA at Costa Rica - everything else TBA

Sat Jun 06 USA v Honduras - everything else TBA

Confederations Cup - South Africa

Mon Jun 15 USA v Italy - Loftus Versfeld - Tshwane, Pretoria - Time & TV TBA

Thu Jun 18 USA v Brazil - Loftus Versfeld - Tshwane, Pretoria - Time & TV TBA

Sun Jun 21 USA v Egypt - Royal Bafokeng Stadium - Rustenberg - Time & TV TBA

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying

Wed Aug 12 USA at Mexico - everything else TBA

Sat Sep 05 USA v El Salvador - everything else TBA

Wed Sep 09 USA at Trinidad & Tobago - everything else TBA

Sat Oct 10 USA at Honduras - everything else TBA

Wed Oct 14 USA v Costa Rica - everything else TBA

USA U20 News

Coach Thomas Rongen had the team in Spain last week for 3 friendlies.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Nov 19

Real Madrid U20 5-3 USA U20 - USA goals by Jorge Flores, Tristan Bowen & Abdusalam Ibrahim.

Match report from US Soccer.

-Thu Nov 20

Atletico Madrid U20 0-0 USA U20

Match report from US Soccer.

-Sat Nov 22

Rayo Vallecano U20 2-0 USA U20

Match report from US Soccer.

The team came home with 0 Wins, 2 loses and 1 Tie. Not so hot. They scored 3 goals, all in the first game, and were blanked in the other two.

Americans In Europe

TRANSFER RUMORS

MLS HQ claims that they have heard nothing from Bayern Munich about a loan deal for Landon Donovan. Huh?

MOST RECENT MATCHES

(only players who saw the field are listed)

French Ligue 1

-Freddy Adu - Monaco - came on as a 90th minute sub as they won 3-0 over Le Mans.

-Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - played all 90 and drew 1-1 at Bordeaux.

Scottish Premier League

-DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - came on as a 69th minute sub and they won 2-0 at home over Aberdeen.

German Bundesliga 1

-Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - gave it the full 90 but lost 3-1 at Schalke.

-Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the full match but got crushed for their efforts at Eintracht Frankfurt 4-0.

-Neven Subotic - Borussia Dortmund - went the distance as they won on the road over Karlsruhe 0-1.

-Sal Zizzo - Hannover - came on as a sub in the 84th minute of a 4-0 loss at Eintract Frankfurt.

German Bundesliga 2

-Gregg Berhalter - 1860 Munich - played the entire match and won 0-1 at Hans Rastock.

-Grover Gibson - Rot Weiss Ahlen - came in as a sub in the 23rd minute and they won 3-0 at home over Ingolstadt.

-Luis Robles - Kaiserslautern - played all 90 but lost 1-0 at Augsburg.

-Matt Taylor - Koblenz - played the whole match but drew at Freiburg 1-1.

-David Yelldell - Koblenz - played the whole match but drew at Freiburg 1-1.

Italian Serie B

-Danny Szetela - Brescia - started and went 75 minutes in a 2-1 home win over Vicenza.

Dutch Erstedivisie

-Charles Kazlauskas - TOP Oss - went the full monty but lost 0-3 at RBC Roosendaal.

Belgian Jupiler League

-Oguchi Onyewu - Standard - played the whole match as always and they won 3-1 at home over Royal Excelsior Mouscron.

Austrian Bundesliga

-Preston Zimmerman - Kapfenberg - started, went 85 minutes, picked up a Yellow Card, and also bagged his 1st goal in a 2-5 win at 1st place Salzburg!

English Premier League

-Clint Dempsey - Fulham - started and went 85 minutes as they drew 0-0 at Liverpool.

-Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the full 90 and got a clean sheet 0-0 at home against Manchester United.

-Tim Howard - Everton - played the full match but lost 1-0 at Wigan.

English Championship Division

-Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the distance in a 3-0 home win over Queens Park Rangers.

-Marcus Hahnemann - Reading - in the goal as always but lost 1-2 at home against Southampton.

-Eddie Johnson - Cardiff - went the full match but lost 2-1 at Plymouth.

English League One

-Jemal Johnson - MK Dons - started and played 78 minutes, earning a Yellow Card, and scoring the winning goal in a 0-3 decision at Walsall.

Danish SAS Ligaen

-Dan Califf - Midjtylland - played the entire match and won 1-2 at Randers.

-Lee Nguyen - Randers - came on as a sub in the 88th minute but lost 1-2 at home against Midtjylland.

-Jeremiah White - Aarhus - came on as a sub in the 81st minute but lost 3-0 at Kobenhaven.

CONCACAF Champions League

The last Group Stage Match & Score:

-Wed Nov 26

Houston Dynamo v Luis Angel Firpo

A win or draw sends Firpo through, while Houston must win to advance.

The advancing team will join Marathon, Cruz Azul, UNAM Pumas, Atlate, Montreal Impact, Santos Laguna & Puerto Rico Islanders in the quarterfinals begining next spring.

Mexico & FMF News

The Primera Apertura playoffs start this weekend.

1st Round 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Sat Nov 22

Cruz Azul 0-0 UNAM Pumas

UANL Tigres 1-1 Atlante

-Sun Nov 23

UAdG Tecos 0-0 Toluca

Santos Laguna v San Luis

1st Round 2nd Leg Matches & Scores (with 1st leg scores included):

-Sat Nov 29

San Luis v Santos Laguna (3-1)

Atlante v UANL Tigres (1-1)

-Sun Nov 30

Toluca v UAdG Tecos (0-0)

UNAM Pumas v Cruz Azul (0-0)

Brazil

Brasileiro Standings, and there are only 2 teams left in the race with 2 games left to play (includes results against final 4 opponents of the season):

71 Sao Paulo (won 3-1 v Figueirense, 1-2 at Vasco da Gama, v Fluminense, at Goias)

66 Gremio (won 2-1 v Coritiba, 4-2 at Vitoria, at Ipatinga, v Atletico MG)

- - - - -

64 Cruzeiro (lost 5-2 at Nautico, 3-2 v Flamengo, at Internacional, v Portuguesa de Desportos)

64 Palmeiras (lost 5-2 at Flamengo, 2-0 v Ipatinga, at Vitoria, v Botafogo)

63 Flamengo (won 5-2 v Palmeiras, 3-2 at Cruzeiro, v Goias, at Atletico Paranaense)

Sao Paulo simply needs 1 point from the last 2 games to clinch the title!

Copa Sudamericana

Semifinals

2nd Leg Matches & Scores (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Wed Nov 19

International 4-0 Guadalajara - Int advance 6-0 on aggregate.

-Thu Nov 20

Estudiantes 1-0 Argentinos Juniors - Est adv 2-1 on agg.

Finals It's Argentina v Brazil!

1st leg Match & Score:

-Wed Nov 26

Estudiantes v Internacional

2nd leg Match & Score (with 1st leg score included):

-Wed Dec 3

Internacional v Estudiantes (-)

European News

GERMANY

Unbelievable Hoffenheim win again, taking them back to the top spot, 3 ahead of Bayern & Bayer.

ITALY

I was just tickled pink on Sunday night as we all gathered around the warm glow of the laptop and looked at international scores from the weekend. I had not watched one minute of football due to the rockin n rollin we were doing in LA. So when KJ told that Inter had beaten Juve 1-0 and Milan had been held 2-2 by Torino I was ecstatic!!!! Juventus had won 7 in a row coming into that match too!

SPAIN

The Spain national team is currently on a run of 25 wins and 3 draws since they last lost a game!

UEFA Champions League

Group Stage Matchday 5 (of 6) Matches & Scores

-Tue Nov 25

Villarreal v Manchester United

Aalborg v Celtic

Bayern Munich v Steaua Bucuresti

Fiorentina v Lyon

Fenerbahce v Porto

Arsenal v Dynamo Kyiv

Zenit v Juventus

BATE Borisov v Real Madrid

-Wed Nov 26

Bordeaux v Chelsea

CFR Cluj v Roma

Inter Milan v Panathinaikos

Anorthosis v Werder Bremen

Shakhtar Donetsk v Basel

Sporting v Barcelona

Atletico Madrid v PSV Eindhoven

Liverpool v Olimpique Marseille

Group Standings

UEFA Cup

All the Matchday 3 (of 5) games will be played on Thu Nov 27 and are listed here.

Group Standings
