STARTERS

I'm getting goosebumps already! MLS Cup is 6 days away.

dN

Bruce Arena of the LA Galaxy has been named the MLS Coach of the Year.

-That was an easy one. No one else was even close.

dN

The New England Revolution has hired Jay "He also played basketball for Mike Krzyzewski at Duke" Heaps as their new head coach. It will be made official soon.

-I set the over/under at 17 for the number of times we will read that this week.

dN

Bob Bradley took a predictable loss in his debut in charge of Egypt as they went down 2-0 to Brazil. They were not terrible.

MLS CUP PLAYOFFS

Final

Match & Score:

-Sun Nov 20

LA Galaxy v Houston Dynamo - 8:00pm CT on ESPN

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

dN

SEASON RECAP:

LA and Houston played twice this year in league play, with each team winning at home. Although the game in Houston was at the very end of the regular season and the Galaxy brought their second string.

GAME 1

-May 25

LA Galaxy 1-0 Houston Dynamo - LAG goal by Landon Donovan (PK).

Venue: The Home Depot Center

Video highlights of the game.

Lineups:

LA Galaxy: Donovan Ricketts, Sean Franklin, Omar Gonzalez, A.J. DeLaGarza, Todd Dunivant, Chris Birchall (Jovan Kirovski 89), Landon Donovan, Juninho, Michael Stephens, Juan Pablo Angel (Mike Magee 61), Chad Barrett (Miguel Lopez 74).

Subs Not Used: Gregg Berhalter, Paolo Cardozo, Frankie Hejduk, Josh Saunders.

Houston Dynamo: Tally Hall, Hunter Freeman, Bobby Boswell, Andre Hainault, Corey Ashe (Mike Chabala 46), Brad Davis (Je-Vaughn Watson 61), Lovel Palmer, Geoff Cameron, Colin Clark, Will Bruin, Koke (Cam Weaver 74).

Subs Not Used: Jason Garey, Kofi Sarkodie, Jermaine Taylor, Tyler Deric.

Cards:

LAG - Sean Franklin (caution; Delaying a Restart) 87

HD - Je-Vaughn Watson (caution; Reckless Foul) 90

GAME 2

-Oct 23

Houston Dynamo 3-1 LA Galaxy - HD goals by Adam Moffat, Bobby Boswell & Carlo Costly. LAG goal by Jack McBean.

Venue: Robertson Stadium

Video highlights of the game.

Lineups:

Houston Dynamo: Tally Hall, Andre Hainault, Bobby Boswell, Geoff Cameron, Corey Ashe, Danny Cruz (Colin Clark 81), Luiz Camargo, Adam Moffat, Brad Davis, Brian Ching (Carlo Costly 63), Calen Carr (Will Bruin 76).

Substitutes Not Used: Hunter Freeman, Jermaine Taylor, Je-Vaughn Watson, Tyler Deric

LA Galaxy: Donovan Ricketts, Frankie Hejduk (Ryan Thomas 76), Gregg Berhalter, Dasan Robinson, A.J. DeLaGarza, Hector Jimenez, Chris Birchall, Dan Keat, Michael Stephens, Jovan Kirovski (Chad Barrett 62), Jack McBean.

Substitutes Not Used: Paolo Cardozo, Sean Franklin, Juninho, Miguel Lopez, Brian Perk.

Cards:

HD - Andre Hainault (caution; Reckless Foul) 43

HD - Danny Cruz (caution; Reckless Foul) 44

LAG - Jovan Kirovski (caution; Reckless Foul) 49

HD - Carlo Costly (caution; Shirt Removal) 75

dN

General Playoff News

The LA Times has a Q & A with commissioner Don Garber.

HOUSTON DYNAMO

Houston head coach Dominic Kinnear has reported that captain Brad Davis will definitely NOT be healthy enough to play in the final.

Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Chronicle talks to San Jose head coach Frank Yallop about his former protege Dynamo head coach Dominic Kinnear.

Ortiz on the important contributions the team has received from Jermaine Taylor when it needed them most this season.

Ortiz says this transplanted team has done pretty good for themselves in just 6 years.

A big week of festivities all over Houston.

One of the Dynamo owners boxing legend Oscar de la Hoya says he going to don orange face paint and watch the game from the supporters section.

Glenn Davis at Fox Sports Houston on the versatile left footer Cory Ashe.

LA GALAXY

Scott French of ESPN with an article on goalkeeper Josh Saunders.

DU NORD AT THE CONTROLS

du Nord at the Controls - Sun Nov 13, 2011 - new music mix at Spotify.

TEAM USA - EL EQUIPO DE TODOS

The USA took another loss under Jurgen Klinsmann, now sitting at 1 win, 1 tie and 4 losses under his helm. Not winning at this stage is not a problem, but the games are just not very inspiring. I read several journalists USA player ratings and all of them seemed 1 full point higher across the board than I thought they should have been. Too many no-show performances from USA players in this game for me.

Tuesday is Slovenia and what on paper should be an easier game.

dN

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 11

France 1-0 USA - Fra goal by Loic Remy.

Match report from US Soccer.

Some more post game notes from US Soccer.

Post game quotes by USA coach and players from US Soccer.

Post game analysis by Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

Player ratings by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Post game analysis by Mike Woitalla of Soccer America.

Player ratings by Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated.

Player ratings by Jeff Carlisle of ESPN.

Post game analysis by Ives Galarcep of Fox Soccer.

Post game analysis by Brian Straus of Sporting News.

Player ratings by John Godfrey of the NY Times.

-Tue Nov 15

Slovenia v USA - 11am CT on ESPN2

How about this graphic from the Slovenia website?!?!

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN declares that the Jurgen Klinsmann honeymoon is now over.

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated previews the Slovenia game.

John Godfrey of the NY Times asks 4 questions of the USA before the Slovenia game.

Richard Farley of Fox Soccer makes a comparison of Jurgen Klinsmann coaching the USA to Rick Pitino coaching the Boston Celtics.

Brian Straus of Sporting News on Brek Shea.

dN

U23 Training Camp

Lots and lots of goodies on the team here at the Youth National Team Blog.

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 11

USA U23 3-1 Bochum Reserves - USA goals by Terrance Boyd, Tony Taylor & Dilly Duka.

Liveup: Sean Johnson; Sheanon Williams, Ethan White, Royal Dominique Fennell, Zarek Valentin; Joe Benny Corona, Amobi Okugo, Mixx Diskerud, Greg Garza; Terrance Boyd, Juan Agudelo

USA U23 v Azerbaijan U21

Liveup: Cody Cropper; Perry Kitchen, Will Packwood, John Anthony Brooks, Sean Cunningham; Caleb Stanko, Sebastian Lletget, Luis Gil; Jerome Kieswetter, Omar Salgado, Bobby Wood

Tue Nov 15

USA U23 v Leverkusen U23

USA U23 v Leverkusen U19

dN

USA Roster-

G:

Bill Hamid - DC United

Tim Howard - Everton

D:

Carlos Bocanegra - Rangers

Timmy Chandler - Nurnberg

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover

Clarence Goodson - Brondby

Alfredo Morales - Hertha

Michael Orozco Fiscal - San Luis

Oguchi Onyewu - Sporting CP

M:

Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake

Michael Bradley - Chievo

Clint Dempsey - Fulham

Maurice Edu - Rangers

Fabian Johnson - Hoffenheim

Jermaine Jones - Schalke

Robbie Rogers - Columbus Crew

Brek Shea - Dallas

Danny Williams - Hoffenheim

F:

Jozy Altidore - AZ

DaMarcus Beasley - Puebla

Edson Buddle - Ingolstadt

dN

Special USA U20/23 Training Camp Roster-

G:

David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes

Cody Cropper - Ipswich Town

Sean Johnson - Chicago Fire

Jon Kempin - Sporting Kansas City

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Eintracht Frankfurt

Anthony Brooks - Hertha Berlin

Sean Cunningham - Molde

Royal-Dominique Fennell - Stuttgart Kickers

Greg Garza - No club

Perry Kitchen - DC United

Will Packwood - Birmingham

Zarek Valentin - Chivas USA

Sheanon Williams - Philadelphia Union

Ethan White - DC United

M:

Joe Corona - Tijuana

Mixx Diskerud - Stabaek

Dilly Duka - Columbus Crew

Luis Gil - Real Salt Lake

Jared Jeffrey - Mainz

Sebastian Lletget - West Ham

Tyrone McCargo - Nurnberg

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Charles Renken - Hoffenheim

Caleb Stanko - Freiburg

Jose Villarreal - LA Galaxy

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Terrence Boyd - Hertha Berlin

Conor Doyle - Derby County

Josh Gatt - Molde

Joe Gyau - Hoffenheim

Jerome Kiesewetter - Hertha Berlin

Jack McInerney - Philadelphia Union

Omar Salgado - Vancouver Whitecaps

Tony Taylor - Atletico CP

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich

Andrew Wooten - Kaiserslautern

dN

Slovenia roster-

G:

Vid Belec - Crotone

Jasmin Handanovic - Maribor

Samir Handanovic - Udinese

D:

Miso Brecko - Cologne

Bostjan Cesar - Chievo

Branko Ilic - Lokomotiv Moscow

Bojan Jokic - Chievo

Matej Mavric Rozic - Kapfenberger

Miral Samardzic - Sheriff

Marko Suler - Gent

M:

Armin Bacinovic - Palermo

Josip Ilicic - Palermo

Andraz Kirm - Wisla Krakow

Rene Krhin - Bologna

Dejan Lazarevic - Padova

Darijan Matic - Kryvbas Kryvyi Rih

Ales Mertelj - Maribor

Dare Vrsic - Olimpija Ljubljana

F:

Valter Birsa - Genoa

Zlatko Dedic - Bochum

Zlatan Ljubijankic - Ghent

Tim Matavz - PSV

Nejc Pecnik - Krylya Sovetov

HMMMMM, VERY INTERESTING

Members of the Houston Dynamo supporters group Texian Army and other fans have organized an open letter written to one of the Dynamo owners, the famous ex-boxer Oscar De La Hoya. They would like to see him take at more visible and active role in team leadership.

An Open Letter To Oscar De La Hoya (@OscarDeLaHoya)

Oscar,

I'm one of the Dynamo supporter group leaders who you met after the stadium ground breaking ceremony in Houston.

I'm sure by now you're irritated by Dynamo supporters demanding you help get them to the MLS Cup next Sunday.

On the surface, it may appear that you've been put in a lose/lose situation. If someone demands money or property from you and you give it to them, you're giving in to those who unjustifiably feel entitled to your hard earned possessions and rewarding bad behavior.

If you reject their demands, then you are vilified - unfairly labeled greedy and apathetic towards the fan base, many of whom have idolized you for much of their lives.

I'd like to suggest to you that there is actually a way for everyone to win in this situation. The answer lies in a simple question that some of us believe you may not have ever asked yourself:

What do you want your relationship with the Houston Dynamo supporters and fan base to be?

From the moment you bought a stake in this club, you have had an opportunity to form a real relationship with a community of some of the most passionate people you will ever meet in your life - a bond that means much more than walking into a section and beating on a drum for 60 seconds. I respect that everyone's situation is unique... but I'd posit that a minority owner like Drew Carey has found a lot of fulfillment being involved with the Sounders and having a close relationship with its supporters and fans. And the people love him for it. But its not about the popularity. Living for popularity is like trying to fill a bucket with holes in it. What is meaningful and where I think Mr. Carey has found a lot of fulfillment, is the real connection to the fans and a real presence with his organization.

Your time and your money are yours. You've earned them and no one has the right to demand either from you. But I hope you see that you have an opportunity to write a new chapter of your legacy. These people... they love you. And I think a lot of the rude comments and unreasonable demands coming your way are frustration over people not really knowing whether or not you give a fuck about this team, this city, or its people.

As I look up on my office wall and see the orange construction helmet that you signed, I remember you talking about how you were counting on us to do it up big in the new stadium. Since then, our groups have reunited, we've reclaimed our place in the elite tier of MLS Supporters, and the Dynamo are the hottest team in the league. We'll be ready to do it up big in the new stadium Oscar. We just have one little piece of business to take care of in Carson, California first.

In the meantime, I thought I'd just write and point out that if you'd like to reach out / support / or just tell them that they matter and you care, there's never been a better time than now.

Chris Smink

Texian Army

cjsmink@gmail.com

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

David Beckham of the LA Galaxy was named the league's Comeback Player of the Year.

COLUMBUS CREW

The Crew has signed Eddie Gaven to a new multi-year contract.

-Now lets hope they really do the smart thing and make him captain for next season.

SPORTING KANSAS CITY SC

Terez Paylor of the Star reports that SKC head coach Peter Vermes has no problem with star striker Omar Bravo being upset about his lack of playing time in the seasons last game. Its how players who care should react when they are on the bench.

REAL SALT LAKE

Martin Renzhofer of the Tribune says the Lakers must now play the difficult game of keeping all their veterans under contract for next season.

-It will be next to impossible.

MLS STADIUMS

The Houston Dynamo gave us video today of the ceremonial last piece of steel being lifted onto the roof of the new stadium.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

DaMarcus Beasley has a new head coach at Puebla and its none other than Juan Carlos Osorio.

UEFA EURO 2012 QUALIFYING

The final 4 places are now up for grabs. 8 teams were paired up and now face off home and away to claim the last places in the next summers big tournament.

Croatia and Ireland both had huge road wins and have a great command going into the final games on Tuesday. Portugal got the scoreless road draw which sets them up nicely. Montenegro will have to make big things happen at home to advance.

You can watch all the games online at ESPN3.com

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Fri Nov 11

Bosnia & Herzegovina 0-0 Portugal

Turkey 0-3 Croatia - Cro goals by Ivica Olic, Mario Mandzukic & Verdan Corluka.

Czech Republic 2-0 Montenegro - CR goals by Vaclav Pilar & Tomas Sivok.

Estonia 0-4 Ireland - Ire goals by Keith Andrews, Jonathan Walters & Robbie Keane(2, 1 via PK).

2nd Leg (with 1st Leg scores included)

-Tue Nov 15

Portugal v Bosnia & Herzegovina (0-0)

Croatia v Turkey (3-0)

Montenegro v Czech Republic (0-2)

Ireland v Estonia (4-0)

BRAZIL

Recap du Nord: The top 2 Corin and Vasco both won and stayed in their places. #3 Flu lost but also did not fall. Figueirense made the big jump though getting a win and moving from 6th to 4th, over Bota who lost and fell to 5th and Fla who also lost and dropped to #6.

Full round of midweek games coming up too.

Serie A Top 5 Standings (34 of 38 games played):

61 Corinthians (18 W) - LAST: Sun Nov 13 W 2-1 v Atletico PR - NEXT: Wed Nov 16 at Ceara

61 Vasco da Gama (17 W) - LAST: Sun Nov 13 W 2-0 v Botafogo - NEXT: Wed Nov 16 at Palmeiras

56 Fluminense (18 W) - LAST: Sat Nov 12 L 1-2 v America Mineiro - NEXT: Wed Nov 16 v Gremio

*56 Figueirense (15 W) - NEXT: Thu Nov 17 at Flamengo

55 Botafogo (16 W) - LAST: Sun Nov 13 L 2-0 at Vasco - NEXT: Wed Nov 16 at America Mineiro

- - - - -

55 Flamengo (14 W) - LAST: Sun Nov 13 L 2-0 at Coritiba

ASIA 2014 WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 11

Jordan 2-0 Singapore

Qatar 4-0 Indonesia

Saudi Arabia 3-0 Thailand

United Arab Emirates 0-2 S Korea

Iraq 1-0 China

Kuwait 0-1 Lebanon

Uzbekistan 1-0 N Korea

Oman 1-0 Australia

Tajikistan 0-4 Japan

Bahrain 1-1 Iran

-Tue Nov 15

Lebanon v S Korea

N Korea v Japan

Kuwait v United Arab Emirates

Jordan v Iraq

Uzbekistan v Tajikistan

Thailand v Australia

Indonesia v Iran

Qatar v Bahrain

Singapore v China

Saudi Arabia v Oman

AFRICA 2014 WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

1st Round matches are Home & Away total goal series.

Liberia has already advanced due to the disqualification of Mauritius.

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Fri Nov 11

Lesotho 1-0 Burundi

Equatorial Guinea 2-0 Madagascar

Guinea-Bissau 1-1 Togo

Eritrea 1-1 Rwanda

Chad 1-2 Tanzania

Seychelles 0-3 Kenya

Swaziland 1-3 Congo DR

Sao Tome e Principe 0-5 Congo

Djibouti 0-4 Namibia

Comoros 0-1 Mozambique

-Sat Nov 12

Somalia 0-0 Ethiopia

2nd Leg(1st Leg scores included)

-Tue Nov 15

Madagascar v Equatorial Guinea (0-2)

Congo v Sao Tome e Principe (5-0)

Burundi v Lesotho (0-1)

Rwanda v Eritrea (1-1)

Togo v Guinea-Bissau (1-1)

Congo DR v Swaziland (3-1)

Tanzania v Chad (2-1)

Kenya v Seychelles (3-0)

Mozambique v Comoros (1-0)

Namibia v Djibouti (4-0)

-Wed Nov 16

Ethiopia v Somalia (0-0)

CONCACAF 2014 WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

SECOND ROUND

Only 1 matchday left this Second Round, but all 6 groups have been decided. The drama is over. These games are meaningless.

The big news is that Guyana and Antiqua & Barbuda have pulled off huge upsets and have advanced over Trinidad & Tobago and Haiti respectively.

This makes the road to the Hexagon a little easier for Third Round group favorites Mexico and the USA.

But Group C in the Third Round will be a doozy: Honduras, Panama, Cuba and Canada. The Canadians have a very difficult schedule to navigate and will be lucky to advance.

Matchday 5

-Fri Nov 11

Suriname 1-3 El Salvador

Dominican Republic 4-0 Cayman Islands

Guyana 2-1 Trinidad & Tobago

Bermuda 2-1 Barbados

Nicaragua 1-0 Dominica

St Kitts & Nevis 0-0 Canada

St Lucia 0-4 Puerto Rico

Guatemala 3-0 Grenada

Belize 1-1 St Vincent & the Grenadines

Antigua & Barbuda 1-0 Haiti

US Virgin Islands 0-3 Curacao

Matchday 6

-Mon Nov 14

Cayman Islands v Dominican Republic

Barbados v Bermuda

Puerto Rico v St Lucia

-Tue Nov 15

El Salvador v Suriname

Trinidad & Tobago v Guyana

Panama v Dominica

Canada v St Kitts & Nevis

Grenada v Guatemala

St Vincent & the Grenadines v Belize

Haiti v Antigua & Barbuda

Curacao v US Virgin Islands

Standings:

Group A

ADV-15 El Salvador

10 Dominican Republic

7 Suriname

0 Cayman Islands

Group B

ADV-13 Guyana

9 Trinidad & Tobago

7 Bermuda

0 Barbados

Group C

ADV-9 Panama

6 Nicaragua

0 Dominica

Group D

ADV-11 Canada

7 St Kitts & Nevis

6 Puerto Rico

1 St Lucia

Group E

ADV-15 Guatemala

5 St Vincent & the Grenadines

4 Grenada

4 Belize

Group F

ADV-15 Antigua & Barbuda

10 Haiti

4 Curacao

0 US Virgin Islands

dN

Beginning Next Summer:

THIRD ROUND

Group A

USA

Jamaica

Guatemala

Antigua & Barbuda

Group B

Mexico

Costa Rica

El Salvador

Guyana

Group C

Honduras

Cuba

Canada

Panama

How did the two USA Third Round opponents do who qualified via the Second Round?

-Antigua & Barbuda

Through 5 games

25 goals scored, 3 surrendered (18 against US Virgin Islands)

Peter Byers who had played for Montreal at one time scored 8.

Taqmarley Thomas scored 5.

-Guatemala

Through 5 games

14 goals scored, 2 surrendered

Top goal scoring was very spread out.

Jamaica is the other team that was placed into the Third Round automatically.

Group Standings

CONMEBOL 2014 WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Matchday 3 & 4

Uruguay agains showed that they have become the power of South America, destroying Chile 4-0 behind a Luis Suarez quadruple.

And what is up with Argentina. When is the last time they scared anyone?

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 11

Argentina 1-1 Bolivia

Colombia 1-1 Venezuela

Uruguay 4-0 Chile

Paraguay 2-1 Ecuador

-Tue Nov 15

Ecuador v Peru

Colombia v Argentina

Venezuela v Bolivia

Chile v Paraguay

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 11

Ukraine 3-3 Germany

Poland 0-2 Italy

Mexico 2-0 Serbia

Netherlands 0-0 Switzerland

France 1-0 USA

Panama 2-0 Costa Rica

Denmark 2-0 Sweden

Georgia 2-0 Moldova

Greece 1-1 Russia

Hungary 5-0 Liechtenstein

Burkina Faso 1-1 Mali

Guinea 1-4 Senegal

Cameroon 3-1 Sudan

Albania 0-1 Azerbaijan

Cyprus 1-2 Scotland

Morocco 0-1 Uganda

Belgium 2-1 Romania

-Sat Nov 12

England 1-0 Spain

Algeria 1-0 Tunisia

South Africa 1-1 Cote d'Ivoire

Nigeria 0-0 Botswana

Wales 4-1 Norway

-Sun Nov 13

India 1-1 Malaysia

Morocco 1-1 Cameroon

Sudan 0-0 Uganda

-Mon Nov 14

Brazil 2-0 Egypt

Honduras v Serbia

-Tue Nov 15

Costa Rica v Spain

Germany v Netherlands

Italy v Uruguay

France v Belgium

England v Sweden

Slovenia v USA

Algeria v Cameroon

Macedonia v Albania

Poland v Hungary

Ukraine v Austria

Denmark v Finland

Nigeria v Zambia

Zimbabwe v South Africa

Senegal v Cote d'Ivoire

Ghana v Gabon

Guinea v Burkina Faso

Belarus v Libya

Luxembourg v Switzerland

Greece v Romania

-Wed Nov 16

India v Malaysia

ENDERS

With the break up of the long time marriage between Thurston Moore and Kim Gordon, and the last tour date on the books for their band Sonic Youth, could this be the end of the band? Many in the know seem to think so. That is a very sad day for me if its true. Best of luck to all of them.

Kool Thing.
