It's Day 11 of 2018.

CONTINUING JONATHAN GONZALEZ FALLOUT

This interview with Brad Rothenberg about young Latino players in the USA is very enlightening, and frankly a gut punch. By Mike Woitalla for Soccer America.

USMNT Youth Technical Director Tab Ramos defends US Soccer and says he did everything he possibly could to make Jonathan Gonzalez feel wanted in the USA international set up. The rest is up to the player. By Ives Galarcep for Goal.

Mexican national team technical director Dennis te Kloese discusses their successful recruitment of Gonzalez. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

dN

In a surprise to no one, Christian Pulisic has won the 2017 Player of the Year Award from American radio network Futbol de Primera.

They have been handing out the award for 27 years, and I believe this year was the easiest choice ever.

Landon Donovan won the award 7 times, and Clint Dempsey 3.

dN

LOS LOONS

11 days until preseason begins

Apparently we are all supposed to hold up our scarves today.

dN

Top 25 Tracks Of The Year: du Nord Music Mix (download + extract)

dN

MLS

The Red Bulls have been in player shedding mode for 3 or 4 years now, going back to the departures of Cahill, Marquez and Henry, and not replacing them. Then last year it was Dax McCarty, and this year Sacha Kljestan. At this rate MLS teams need to be ready to pounce cuz that would make Bradley Wright Phillips and Luis Robles next. What is the master plan behind all this? By Sam Stjeskal for Four Four Two.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Josh Sargent becomes the "51st American national to play for a Bundesliga club." From the Bundesliga.

Here is more from the Bundesliga on Sargent joining Werder last week.

He doesn't turn 18 until Feb 20 so technically he can't sign with the club or play in official senior team games yet.

dN

OH CANADA

The men's national team has another new head coach. A real revolving door. This time Octavio Zambrano didn't even last a year. Their women's national team coach John Herdman is the new hire, and he has been given orders to streamline the whole program. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

2018 Canadian Championship Schedule:

First Qualifying Round (1QR)

1st Leg

-Jun 6

Blainville v Oakville Blue Devils

2nd Leg

-Jun 13

Oakville Blue Devils v Blainville

---

Second Qualifying Round (2QR)

1st Leg

-Jun 20

1QR Winner v Ottawa Fury

2nd Leg

-Jun 27

Ottawa Fury v 1QR Winner

---

Semifinals

1st Leg

-Jul 18

2QR Winner v Toronto

Montreal Impcat v Vancouver Whitecaps

2nd Leg

-Jul 25

Toronto v 2QR Winner

Vancouver Whitecaps v Montreal Impact

---

Finals

(two legs)

-Aug 8 + 15

dN

EUROPE

Former Disney chair Michael Eisner has bought old, worn out English team Portsmouth and with a slow and steady approach wants to make another triumphant sports story. By Rory Smith for the NY Times.

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S 5 TOP LEAGUES

Schedule:

-Fri Jan 12

Leverkusen v Bayern

-Sat Jan 13

Eibar v Atletico Madrid

Chelsea v Burnley

Liepzig v Schalke

Rennes v Marseille

Montpellier v Monaco

Real Madrid v Villarreal

Tottenham v Everton

Deportivo La Coruna v Valencia

-Sun Jan 14

Bournemouth v Arsenal

Real Sociedad v Barcelona

Dortmund v Wolfsburg

Liverpool v Man City

Lyon v Angers

Nantes v PSG

-Mon Jan 15

Man United v Stoke

The Bird Is The Word
