It's Day 214 of 2016.

Charlie Davies revealed that he has cleared another massive hurdle in life - he has undergone treatment for a rare cancer (liposarcoma in a testicle.) Stuart Holden of FOX Soccer interviews Davies. [VIDEO]

Davies took the field for New England in the 75th minute on Sunday night for the first time since Apr 27. What an amazing recovery.

dN

My MLS Notes:

NYC + Frank Lampard tore up the Rapids vaunted defense (15 games without a loss) with a hattrick as part of NYC's 5-1 win.

New head coach Jason Kreis and Orlando got off to a good start together, beating up on a mediocre New England team.

New interim head coach Brian Schmetzer and Seattle played well, but couldn't finish (which has been their constant) and tied with a very efficient LA which has claimed 8 points in their last 4 road games.

Dallas and Toronto both had strong home wins.

Sebastian Giovinco appears to have broken his slump, with a goal and 2 assists, one to Jozy Altidore, who needed a goal as bad as anyone. And TFC had a great game, without the injured Michael Bradley, Benoit Cheyrou and Will Johnson.

Chris Wondolowski scored his 114th MLS regular season goal.

Bradley Wright Phillips is now the New York Red Bulls all time leading goal scorer with 63.

Best MLS goals of the week:

Joao Plata of Salt Lake

Kevin Molino of Orlando

Alex of Houston

Hernan Bernardello of Montreal

Sebastian Giovinco of Toronto

Kei Kamara

dN

The best MLS weekend roundup and analysis. By Matthew Doyle of MLSsoccer.com.

Amazing stat: Early season games are very important, as 80% of the post-season is set by the time we get to game 20 (now.)

dN

Important MLS Week 21 results:

-Sat Jul 30

NYC 5-1 Colorado

-Sun Jul 31

SKC 1-0 Portland

Seattle 1-1 LA

Orlando 3-1 New Eng

dN

What the hell is going on with Fabian Castillo? He left Dallas, landed in Turkey, was carried out of the airport on the shoulders of supporters, and signed a contract to play for Trabzonspor. Then reports came out that a sale agreement was not reached. And over the weekend FC Dallas said the deal was dead. On Monday morning Castillo's agent tweeted that he was still negotiating with MLS. Meaning the contract the player signed is invalid? Confusion.

A similar thing happened with Vancouver and Camilo Sanvezzo. The player never came back and the Whitecaps took a rock bottom price instead.

dN

Houston has sold forward Giles Barnes sold to Vancouver.

dN

Portland is outside the playoff spots right now because they are winless on the road.

They are trying to address this with the signing of 30 year old English centerback Steven Taylor from Newcastle. Just in time.

dN

This sounds absurd to me, but... The MLS expansion fee paid by Minnesota United will be a bargain if this report of $200 Million dollars for the next teams is true. By Scott Sochnick of Bloomberg.

At the same time the very reputable Sports Business Daily is reporting a much more realistic sounding fee of $125 Million for the next teams. (article is behind a pay wall)

dN

Bayern Munich is considering an investment in a MLS team in order to get more traction in the USA marketplace. By HJ Mai of Sports Business Daily.

Remember that time when Minnesota United owner spent time at Bayern Munich?!?! I'm not sayin', I'm just sayin'.

dN

Out Now:

Beautiful New York punk scene photos by Godlis (76-79)

A photo posted by brucio mcguire (@brucedunord) on Aug 1, 2016 at 7:53am PDT

dN

CONCACAF Champions League group stage starts this week!

And it looks like Univision Deportes is the only broadcaster in the USA. Check your local listings.

Matchday 1:

-Tue Aug 2

Central (T+T) v Vancouver Whitecaps (CAN)

Pachuca (MEX) v Olimpia (HON)

-Wed Aug 3

W Connection (T+T) v Pumas UNAM (MEX)

New York Red Bulls (USA) v Antigua GFC (GUA)

Portland Timbers (USA) v Dragón (SAL)

Don Bosco (HAI) v Monterrey (MEX)

-Thu Aug 4

Dallas (USA) v Real Estelí (NIC)

Plaza Amador v Herediano (CR)

dN

A preview of the CCL group stage. By Arch Bell of ESPNFC.

dN

Bob Bradley Weekly Tracker: Le Havre won 0-1 at Orleans to open the season on Friday, with a goal by French veteran Mathieu Duhamel.

Up Next: Fri Aug 5 v Nimes

dN

After 2 years out with knee injuries Terrence Boyd played for Leipzig in preseason on Friday and scored a goal. Fantastic for him.

dN

Jose Torres played a huge 90 minutes for Tigres as they went away to America and came home with a 0-3 win.

dN

Pachuca and Omar Gonzalez are still on a perfect start to the Liga MX season, the only team with 3 wins from 3 games.

dN

Michael Orozco got a start for Tijuana but was subbed off at halftime. They won 4-0 over Guadalajara.

dN

Miguel Ibarra still sits on the bench at Leon while his team drowns in last place. Let me put this into a mathmatical equation for head coach Luis Tena: 0 wins + 1 draw + 2 losses + 1 goal scored + 6 allowed = last place, buddy!

dN

My Minnesota United Notes:

Game highlights. [VIDEO]

Surprise starters: Ismaila Jome, Jack Blake, Stewart Ceus.

Good news: Minnesota was the only road team to get any points this weekend. All the other home teams won.

Bad news: Its hard to stomach giving up a goal in 2nd half stoppage time just seconds after scoring what you thought was the game winner.

MU played a good first half relative to the trip they made to OKC in early June. But they could not come up with a goal for the effort. It cost them.

Justin Davis with a gorgeous floating header to the back post for goal 1.

Christian Ramirez thought he scored the game winner in 2nd half stoppage time. His 12th of the season.

That 2nd Minnesota goal was the culmination of 29 consecutive passes.

All 11 players touched the ball on that goal too! Ceus, Lowe, Thiago, Kallmann, Davis, Brovsky, Ibson, Mendes, Jome, Speas and Ramirez

I would have liked to have seen Sammy Ndjock get a chance to save those 2 goals that MNUFC gave up. I really think he might have gotten to at least 1 of them.

Ismaila Jome followed up his first appearance and goal last week with his first start and yellow card this week. You are a full professional now my man!

Ibson again was a catalyst. Played a part in both goals. He seems to be back to his full-impact self. Therefore he needs to play all 90 of every game.

But with games coming up on Wed and Sat it was not a bad idea to rest some players.

Nothing short of 6 points at home this week against Puerto Rico and Miami is acceptable.

Minnesota plays Puerto Rico for the first time, at home on Wed night.

dN

How bad is Jacksonville? They got beat by Fort Lauderdale.

dN

An NASL Week 15 round up. By Jake Nutting of Empire of Soccer.

dN

NASL Week 15 results

-Sat Jul 30

Fort Lauderdale Strikers 1-0 Jacksonville Armada

Ottawa Fury 2-0 Tampa Bay Rowdies

NY Cosmos 3-0 Puerto Rico

Miami 2-1 Indy Eleven

Rayo OKC 2-2 Minnesota United

-Sun Jul 31

Edmonton 1-0 Carolina RailHawks

14 goals in 6 games = 2.3 GPG.

dN

NASL Points Per Game Standings:

1.88 Ed 30/16

1.82 NYC 31/17

1.75 IE 28/16

1.73 MU 26/15

1.41 ROKC 24/17

1.31 TBR 21/16 (-1 GD)

1.31 CRH 21/16 (-5 GD)

1.19 FLS 19/16

1.13 OF 18/16

1.00 Mi 15/15

0.83 PR 5/6

0.69 JA 11/16

dN

English Premier League season previews. By the Guardian:

Arsenal

Bournemouth

dN

The former Guatemalan soccer federation president Brayan Jimenez has pleaded guilty to bribery charges stemming from the FIFA Scandal. By Mica Rosenberg of Reuters.

The Bird Is The Word
