It's Day 258 of 2016.

Clint Dempsey trained with Seattle today for the first time since undergoing diagnostic testing for an irregular heartbeat. By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times.

UPDATE:

Dempsey has been cleared to return to training in a limited capacity but has not been cleared to play

— Matt Pentz (@mattpentz) September 14, 2016

dN

A long interview with Loons boss Manny Lagos. By Ryan Tolmich of SBI.

Word on the street is that Damien Lowe is battling a slight hamstring thingy. Prognosis unknown.

dN

US Open Cup Final:

-Tue Sep 13

FC Dallas 4-2 New England Revolution

Huge congrats to FC Dallas, fans and staff.

NER got a fantastic early goal by Juan Agudelo, created by high pressure and quick decisions.

FCD stormed back and eventually had a 3-1 lead at half time.

FCD came at the Revs from every angle in the last 30 minutes of the half.

NER had to make 2 injury subs in the first half, and seemed to have no answer to the Dallas outside attackers.

Dallas added a 4th late, and NER got another from Agudelo for the final score.

Mauro Diaz was incredible for Dallas. What a player!

I believe the last time Dallas won a trophy was 1997. I'm not kidding. Here's the story of last night's big win. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

Its been discovered that Franz Beckenbauer who was the VOLUNTARY head of the 2006 World Cup Committee was given $6.2 Million (by one of the FIFA event sponsors) for his role. Was that unaccounted for money payment for the job he did, or something else all together? The scheisse is getting deep in Germany. Via Deutsche Welle.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League group stage Match Day 4 schedule:

Vancouver has advanced to the knock out stage. The first team to do so. They have the full 12 pts with 1 game to play.

15 year old Alphonso Davies got the game winner for Vanc.

Kansas City has been eliminated from the tournament. Just 1 point from 3 games. Oof.

And Police United got their collective ass BLISTERED by Pachua. Wow.

11 goals for Pachuca! 11!

Monterrey goes tonight.

And the juicy Saprissa v Portland game.

-Tue Sep 13

Sporting Kansas City 1-2 Vancouver Whitecaps

Police United 0-11 Pachuca

Real Esteli 1-1 Suchitepequez

-Wed Sep 14

Arabe Unido v Monterrey

Saprissa v Portland Timbers

-Thu Sep 15

New York Red Bulls v Alianza

Honduras Progreso v Pumas UNAM

Herediano v Plaza Amador

dN

UPDATED: UEFA Champions League group stage - Big teams in action:

Barca + Bayern put up big big numbers.

Messi(3), Suarez(2), Neymar + Iniesta. Good luck beating them when they do that.

-Tue Sep 13

PSG 1-1 Arsenal

Barca 7-0 Celtic

Bayern 5-0 Rostov

Dortmund ran up the score in Poland.

Kun Aguero bagged 3 as Man City skewers Gladbach.

Juve did a faceplant at home.

-Wed Sep 14

Man City v Gladbach

Real Madrid v Sporting CP

Legia v Dortmund

Juve v Sevilla

Christian Pulisic went the full 90 today and grabbed a nice assist for Dortmund in the UCL.

Fabian Johnson lasted the whole 90 for Gladbach playing a day late in the UCL at Manchester City after biblical rain canceled Tuesdays game. Yeah, they lost badly.

dN

The rule book UEFA hands out to every participating club in the Champions League is in depth, important and a little weird. By Rory Smith of the New York Times.

dN

Interesting reading about the restaurant critic at the New York Times, Pete Wells, including some infamous run-ins with David Chang and Guy Fieri. By Ian Parker of the New Yorker.

dN

Mountain Singers live at Little Canada Bingo!

Wednesday gets its grind on! #eurorack #modular #synth #MountainSingers

A video posted by Billy McGuire (@bill_mcguire) on Sep 14, 2016 at 12:37pm PDT

dN

Samantha Kerr of Sky Blue named NWSL Player Of The Week.

dN

Ale Moreno's Weekly MLS Award Show. From ESPNFC. [VIDEO]

dN

You remember Steve Nichol don't you. Long time coach of New England who lost 4(!) MLS Cups Finals. Oof. Anyway. He has written a book and ESPNFC has printed a little of it. Get a little taste of potatoes, Niger night bugs and Clint Dempsey.

dN

NASL Mid-Week 22 schedule:

-Wed Sep 14

Miami v Carolina

Edmonton v OKC

dN

Its chaos off the field for the Fort Lauderdale Strikers. By Bryan Kay of the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
