It's Day 301 of 2016.

Saturday night will be the final Minnesota United game at NSC Stadium.

Here is a little video about that last game, narrated by a familiar voice:

We say goodbye to an old friend on Saturday... pic.twitter.com/4RA1E23kh8

— Minnesota United FC (@MNUFC) October 27, 2016

dN

MLS Playoffs - Knockout Round schedule + results:

Both games finished 3-1 last night but LA put on a much more dominating performance. And they did it without 3 key attackers.

Toronto with their first playoff win in first home playoff game. The fans looked like they had a great night, and they sure did deserve with after all the garbage they have had to put up with in 10 years.

Philly goes home with hopes for next year. They have a bunch of holes to fill.

RSL sunk like a stone. They were done early in that game. New leadership is needed badly.

Good: Emmanuel Boateng had a great first half for the Galaxy.

Bad: Philly centerback Ken Tribbett will never forget the game - he made two huge mistakes in front of goal that lead to 2 goals.

The 2 semifinal matchups that are already set are looking GREAT. Lets hope we have 4, and its the best MLS post season ever.

-Wed Oct 26

Toronto 3-1 Philadelphia Union

Game highlights [VIDEO]

LA Galaxy 3-1 Real Salt Lake

Game highlights [VIDEO]

-Thu Oct 27

DC United v Montreal Impact – 6:30pm CT on UniMas

Seattle Sounders v Sporting Kansas City – 9:30pm CT on FS1 + UniMas

In the East Red Bulls will host the lower seed of the teams that advance, and NYC the higher seed.

In the West Dallas will host the lower seed of the teams that advance, and Colorado the higher seed.

Quarterfinals - 1st Leg Schedule:

-Sun Oct 30

??? v Dallas

LA Galaxy v Colorado Rapids

??? v New York Red Bulls

Toronto v New York City

2nd Leg games on Sun Nov 6

dN

Wade Barrett was told yesterday that he would NOT be considered for the head coaching position in Houston. After going over the numbers I posted on Tuesday that seemed like a natural conclusion.

Today we get this:

Wilmer Cabrera will be named the next head coach of the Houston Dynamo, sources tell @PaulTenorio: https://t.co/iWACgmTA2C #MLS pic.twitter.com/Fuae087oPG

— FourFourTwo USA (@FourFourTwoUSA) October 27, 2016

dN

I had 6 coaches on my MLS Hot Seat this week, but 3 of them appear safe already:

#6 Greg Vanney - won their first playoff game decisively

#4 Jim Curtin - even though they lost in the playoffs right away the talk is that GM Earnie Stewart is absolutely keeping Curtin for next season.

#2 Carl Robinson - Vancouver had a terrible season but the team signed him to a new 4 year contract anyway.

dN

After seeing the field just a couple times this season for Columbus Crew, Conor Casey has announced his retirement at age 35. After starting his career in Germany he played the past 10 years in MLS.

dN

New Spain coach Julen Lopetegui likes what he sees of David Villa these days at New York City. By Adriana Garcia of ESPNFC.

dN

A bunch of lunkheaded fans of West Ham and Chelsea took us back to the 80s last night, throwing objects at each other, drawing blood and singing idiotic homophobic songs. So lame.

Its not unlike the fool at the 76ers game who stood courtside giving double birds to Oklahoma's Russell Westbrook. RW just looked at him like, "Are you guy seeing this fool?" They moron got tossed from the arena. I am all for bringing more civility back to sports fandom. The freedom of speech excuses doesn't apply.

dN

U of Minnesota Women beat Maryland 6-0 last night to claim the Big Ten Title in a tie with Penn State. (I watched the two teams play to a 1-1 tie on field this season too.)

They next host a Quarterfinal game in the Big Ten tournament, where they are the #1 Seed, against Indiana at 2pm CT on Sunday.

dN

Cigars: du Nord Music Mix Vol 102 (download + extract)

dN

Americans in Europe Mid-week:

EFL Cup - Round of 16: Lynden Gooch came in the 87th min for Sunderland bu they lost 1-0 at Southampton.

DFB Pokal - Round of 32: Julian Green started, went 89 min and scored the game winning goal as Bayern beat Augsburg 3-1.

KNVB Beker - Round of 32: Matt Miazga went the full 90 for Vitesse as they beat Waalwijk 4-1.

dN

Copa MX - Apertura Semifinal results:

-Tue Oct 25

Toluca 0-0 Queretaro - Que advanced 7-8 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

-Wed Oct 26

America 1-1 Guadalajara - Gua advanced 4-3 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

Final:

-date TBA (next week)

Queretaro v Guadalajara

dN

NASL Week 28 Schedule:

Only 2 games matter in a big way Minn at home on Sat and OKC at home on Sun. One of them will be the last playoff team.

Montons on Fri and Indy on Sun matter for seeding.

-Fri Oct 28

Miami v Edmonton

-Sat Oct 29

Ottawa v Ft Lauderdale

Puerto Rico v Carolina

Minnesota v New York - 7pm CT on My29, ESPN3.com and One World Sports

-Sun Oct 30

Jacksonville v Tampa Bay

OKC v Indy - 6pm CT on ESPN3.com and Cox703

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#1 62 New York

#2 55 Indy

#3 53 Edmonton

#4 44 OKC (+5 GD)

-----

41 Minnesota (+5 GD)

The Bird Is The Word
