-Two massive MLS games this weekend - AKA The MLS Cup Semifinals:

Saturday

Colorado v Los Angeles 8pm central on Fox Soccer Channel

Sunday

New England v Chicago 2pm central on ESPN2

-US Soccer last night announced a new friendly for Team USA. The details are as follows:

USA v Norway

Sunday, January 29, 2006 - 2pm Pacific Time

Home Depot Center in Carson, CA

If you happen to be a member of US Soccer, you can get tickets starting the morning of Monday Nov 7 using a special code provided to you by US Soccer. Tickets go on sale to the general public on Wed Nov 9.

-There is an article at a New England Revolution fan site about the possibility of a new stadium for the team.

-Feature story on my guy Dedi Ben-Dayan in todays Denver Post.

-RSL keeper DJ Countess had surgery yesterday to repair a torn labrum in his left shoulder.

-I am not convinced that this story is true yet, but reports say Pavel Nedved has agreed to play for his Czech Repulic v Norway in the World Cup Qualifying playoffs coming up. I had earlier read quotes from him saying he would consider un-retiring IF they won the playoff. We shall see. They could certainly use someone that good.

-Big Euro-centric matches this weekend

Getafe v Barcelona - The surprising #4 v the underachieving #2. (Can you be #2 and underachieve? Yes!)

Milan v Udinese - The once unbeatable defense v Serie A's biggest surprise in the Champions League.

Bayern Munchen v Werder Bremen - Top of the table warfare! Always excellent. Bayern leads the Bundesliga by 2 points over Bremen.

Borussia Monchengladbach v Hamburger SV - Two early season upstarts try to step on each others throats.

-Interliga news direct from the Dallas Morning News: Pizza Hut Park will host four matches in January's InterLiga, the eight-team tournament that determines Mexico's two automatic entrants into South America's prestigious Copa Libertadores. Doubleheaders Jan. 7 and 8 will feed into the Jan. 15 finals in Los Angeles.

-Unfortunately for regular reader KeeperKen, his top ranked Akron lost their last regular season match to perennial grandmasters Indiana 1-0 last night in Bloomington. Here is a recap of the match. Akron sits at 16-1-1 now.

-Primera Division de Mexico Round 15 matches upcoming:

Saturday:

Toluca v Sinaloa

Chiapas v UNAL

Monterrey v Veracruz

Morelia v Necaxa

Atlas v Guadalajara

Sunday:

UNAM v Atlante - live at Noon central on Univision

Pachuca v San Luis

UAG v Santos

America v Cruz Azul - live at 5pm central on TeleFutura

The last game there is THE BIGGIE!! If Cruz Azul can win it, they would be even at the top of the table with only 2 rounds left to play!

-Yesterday readers of du Nord came not only from the USA but also: England, Netherlands, France, Ireland, Germany, Turkey, India, Poland, Israel, Spain, Canada & Uruguay. Thanks everyone!

-A head nod in the direction of Wendy Parker's Off The Ball in the Atlanta Constitution Journal for her repeated mentions of du Nord.

-Breck won the Minnesota State High School Class A Soccer Tournament 1-0 over Saint Louis Park. Woodbury was buried 0-2 by Wayzata for the Class AA title.

-Scores from yesterdays UEFA Cup matches:

Hamburg 2-0 Viking

Slavia 4-2 CSKA Sofia

Brondby 2-0 Maccabi Petach-Tikva

Palermo 0-0 Lokomotiv Moskva

Lens 5-0 Halmstad

Sampdoria 0-0 Steaua

Litex 2-1 Grasshoppers

Middlesbrough 3-0 Dnipro

Crvena Zvezda 1-2 Basel

Strasbourg 2-0 Tromso

Levski 1-0 Dinamo Bucuresti

Heerenveen 0-0 CSKA Moskva

Rapid 2-0 Rennes

Stuttgart 0-2 Shakhtar

Bolton 1-0 Zenit

Sevilla 3-0 Besiktas
