It's Day 232 of 2016.

Dear Metallica, I have never asked you for anything, and will admit I haven't liked very much of your music since Cliff passed away, but now I am asking for a favor, please stop.

dN

Minnesota United officially steps in to Major League Soccer tonight with a big press conference and party in St Paul at CHS Field.

How the team that nobody wanted has become beloved. An historical timeline. By Andy Greder of the St Paul Pioneer Press

The day is here to move to a bigger league with much bigger $$$ and expectations. By David La Vaque of the Minneapolis Star Tribune.

Lots of quotes from yours truly in both articles.

My former podcast partner Wes Burdine was the guest on Extra Time Radio (MLS's in-house podcast/radio show) yesterday talking all things Minnesota United. [AUDIO]

You can watch a live video stream of the Minnesota Next Stop MLS press conference tonight at 6pm CT.

Lots and lots of talk about expansion in MLS starting with Minnesota, and some on NASL and USL too. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

NASL Week 18:

-Sat Aug 20

Jacksonville v Minnesota - 1:30pm CT on My29 (Twin Cities) + ESPN3

Fort Lauderdale v Ottawa

Carolina v Indy

Puerto Rico v Cosmos

Tampa Bay v Edmonton

OKC v Miami

dN

ESPN Deports/du Nord Futbol Jersey Giveaway:

All week we asked you soccer questions here on the du Nord Futbol blog, and on our Twitter, Facebook and Instagram accounts, you gave us your answers and we compiled a list of all the answerees names. Then we put all those names into a big box and drew out the name of 1 winner this morning!

Winner is E.X. Aguilar Barrera @el_oregonio

dN

OFFICIAL: US Open Cup Final

-Tue Sep 13

FC Dallas v New England Revolution - at 9pm CT on ESPN2 and UDN

dN

Big Matches in MLS Week 24

-Sat Aug 20

New York City v LA Galaxy - 2pm CT on ESPN

Philadelphia Union v Toronto - 6:00pm CT on MLS Live

Real Salt Lake v Dallas - 9:00pm CT on MLS Live

-Sun Aug 21

Seattle Sounders v Portland Timbers - 8:30pm CT on FS1

dN

CONCACAF Champions League group stage Matchday 2 schedule:

Pumas and coach Paco Palencia got the home win they needed.

Saprissa were the biggest winners this week getting 6 goals at home.

Matchday 3 is next week.

Viewing options: Univision Deportes and Facebook.

-Thu Aug 18

Suchitepequez (GUA) 1-0 Real Esteli (NIC)

Pumas UNAM (MEX) 2-0 Progreso (HON)

Saprissa (CR) 6-0 Dragon (SAL)

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

Up Next - Fri Aug 19 - L 1-3 at home v Troyes

dN

Spain's La Liga season preview - a weird world, with a third team joining the Big 2 in recent years, but the rest of the league can almost feel irrelevant. By Sid Lowe of the Guardian.

dN

Olympic Tournament Finals Match Schedule:

Women's

-Fri Aug 19

Sweden v Germany

Men's

-Sat Aug 20

Brazil v Germany

The Bird Is The Word
