It's Day 299 of 2017.

MLS PLAYOFFS

Two games completed and neither was even close. Red Bulls looked really good with a complete game performance ON THE ROAD.

Knock Out Round Schedule/Results:

-Wed Oct 25

Chicago 0-4 Red Bulls

Vancouver 5-0 San Jose

Match reports:

New York - Red Bulls cruise past 1st round. By Ian Powers of the Associated Press, via the New York Daily News.

Vancouver - Set pieces were the key. By Patrick Johnston for the Vancouver Sun.

-Thu Oct 26

Atlanta v Columbus - 6:00pm CT on ESPN2

Houston v Kansas City - 8:30pm CT on UniMas

Previews:

Atlanta - Now just making the playoffs is not enough. By Doug Roberson for the Atlanta Journal Constitution.

Columbus - What is the strategy? By Andrew Erickson for the Columbus Dispatch.

-Very little attention being paid to game by the local media in Columbus.

Houston - Looking for Erik Torres to step up. By Corey Roepken for the Houston Chronicle.

-With the Astros in the World Series this actual rivalry between Houston and KC is getting little love.

Kansas City - The only goal is winning MLS Cup. By Sam McDowell for the Kansas City Star.

Quarterfinals – Western Conference Schedule:

1st Leg

-Sun Oct 29

Vancouver v Seattle - 7:30 CT on ESPN

dN

A small and secretly owned Mexican company could be the next people outed in FIFA scandals. By Tariq Panja for the New York Times.

dN

MLS commissioner comments publicly about the mess of Columbus Crew moving to Austin TX. By Daniel Roberts for Yahoo Finance.

dN

Grapes: du Nord Music Mix Vol 144 (download + extract)

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

I've been begging the Loons to focus on DEFENSE. But this interview with bosses Manny Lagos and Adrian Heath says they are focused on everything but DEFENSE. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

This is hard to read. It makes me sad.

Lagos: "I think to add a couple more offensive players that have a little more influence in the game that can control the tempo of the game for the team is going to be important. After that, I think you could talk about depth in center midfielders and wide positions."

Cronin concussion improving

Schuller is expected back from loan for preseason camp.

Preseason begins on Jan 23.

This is from a similar article in the Star Tribune by Megan Ryan: "Heath did commend the work of Francisco Calvo, Michael Boxall, Brent Kallman, Collin Martin and Sam Cronin."

That is the heart of the defnese that set records for goals allowed. And they are rewarded with praise.

Am I completely wrong here? Am I missing something?

Very succinct answer from @GrantWahl pic.twitter.com/IorilUasAM

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) October 26, 2017

Christian Ramirez - The Year In Goals

Thanks to Onfield Management

dN

Jose Angulo of OKC Energy named USL Player Of The Month for October

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Timmy Chandler suffered a right meniscus tear that required surgery. He will be out until January.

Prior to the Gold Cup Kenny Saief suffered a hernia injury that needed surgery and then got infected. He is finally back to training with Gent in Belgium.

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

Brazilian team Gremio rolled on the road last night. By Tim Vickery for ESPNFC.

Semifinal Schedule:

(no TV in America)

1st Leg

-Tue Oct 24

River Plate 1-0 Lanus - RP goal by Ignacio Scocco.

-Wed Oct 25

Barcelona 0-3 Gremio

2nd Leg

-Oct 31

Lanus v River Plate

-Nov 1

Gremio v Barcelona

dN

LIGA MX

With 3 games left to play in the Apertura season Monterrey has locked a place in the playoffs. At the other end of the spectrum both Queretaro and Pumas are already out of the playoff chase. And both Guadalajara and Puebla are 1 point from elimination. That leaves 6 teams chasing 7 of the top 8 for the other Liguilla positions.

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPES TOP LEAGUES

In a round of midweek games none of the big 5 in Italy lost or tied.

Schedule:

-Tue Oct 24

Inter 3-2 Sampdoria

-Wed Oct 25

Chievo 1-4 Milan

Genoa 2-3 Napoli

Juventus 4-1 SPAL

Roma 1-0 Crotone

-Fri Oct 27

PSG v Nice

-Sat Oct 28

Man United v Tottenham

Bayern v Leipzig

Milan v Juventus

Bilbao v Barcelona

West Brom v Man City

Bournemouth v Chelsea

Hannover v Dortmund

Arsenal v Swansea

Roma v Bologna

Liverpool v Huddersfield

Atletico Madrid v Villarreal

Schalke v Wolfsburg

Bordeaux v Monaco

-Sun Oct 29

Girona v Real Madrid

Napoli v Sassuolo

Lille v Marseille

-Mon Oct 30

Hellas Verona v Inter

The Bird Is The Word
