USA v Costa Rica friendly tonight - 6pm CT kickoff from Red Bull Arena

I'm watching at the Sweetwater in St Paul - join me!

USA roster for Costa Rica:

G: Brad Guzan, Bill Hamid, Tim Howard

D: Ventura Alvarado, Geoff Cameron, Brad Evans, Fabian Johnson, Michael Orozco, Tim Ream, Jonathan Spector

M: Alejandro Bedoya, Mix Diskerud, Jermaine Jones, Lee Nguyen, Brek Shea, Danny Williams, DeAndre Yedlin

F: Jozy Altidore, Bobby Wood, Andrew Wooten, Gyasi Zardes

dN

Our man Wes Burdine getting more famous today for his thoughts on (and tamping-down of) the hype over anti-Klinsmann sentiment. He's over it. #KlinsmannIsSatan. From Northern Pitch.

Speaking of Wes, his band Gospel Machine just put out their new album and are headed to New York this week for their East Coast debut.

I don't read my old pal Dan Loney nearly as often as I should. He writes for Big Soccer and he sums up the USA-Mexico/Klinsmann debacle pretty well.

-Dan has always had a way with words, and tends to piss some people off, which makes me think he is on the right track. Plus he is extremely funny.

I gotta say, at times like this I love having @AlexiLalas and @EricWynalda on Twitter. They have opinions on stuff and they have experience to back it up. Not saying I agree or disagree, I just take them at their word.

The controversy grows:

Monchengladbach Tweeted this morning that Fabian Johnson has a thigh injury. They Tweeted later in the day that he its doubtful he will play this weekend.

dN

Daniel Boniface of the Denver Post tell us about an airplane the flew over Dick's Sporting Good Park on Saturday night pulling a banner that read: “The club is still a wreck. KSE & Hinchey out.” Seems a Rapids fan is not happy with ownership and management of the team. Can you blame this person? Its pretty awful in Colorado.

-And that teams supporters are to be commended for remaining as supporters.

dN

Run-away MLS MVP Sebastian Giovinco goes back to Italy to play for his national team and turns on the style. Kurt Larson of Toronto Sun reporting.

dN

Did you know? Drogba has 9 goals in 9 games for Montreal. Maybe he is the league MVP!

-This goal from last Saturday is ridiculous! And the stare down afterward is almost as good!

dN

Minnesota United forward Pablo Campos named NASL Player Of The Week.

The Bird Is The Word
