STARTERS

Toronto finally wins. It had happened eventually. And Philly were the victims of a 88th minute goal by Danny Koevermans.

Brad Guzan was given his release by Aston Villa and he is now free to move about the cabin - looking for first class accommodations hopefully.

TEAM USA

A very good start to the 5 games in 18 days. Three goals for El D!

5-1 for the USA. Scotland were hot, sweaty and jet-lagged. The USA were quick and direct. They even stopped playing for the last 20 minutes and got that big of a win.

49 career international goals for Landon Donovan.

You can't say enough good things about the games for Michael Bradley, with a monster 2nd goal, Jermaine Jones and Jose Torres. Those 4 midfielder completely controlled the whole game.

And hey, how about that national anthem! (Video)

-And I was thinking that the bagpipers playing the Scottish anthem had a tough time keeping in tune with each other. They sounded like they were auto-tuned compared to that weird "singing" of the Star Spangled Banner. Oof.

What did the newspapers in Scotland have to say about the game:

Tom Dart of the Scotsman with a match report. Uses the word sledgehammer to describe the USA win.

Lisa Gray of the Scotsman reports that Scotland was without 11 players, many who have been starters in the recent past.

Stephen Halliday of the Scotsman says Scottish coach Craig Levein is still optimistic that his team is on the right track.

Photos from The Scotsman.

The Scotsman says that any missing players from the Scotland lineup are not a valid excuse.

The Sun: An embarrassment.

Robert Grieve of the Scottish Sun says Scotland was Yanked apart.

The Sun gives us Scotland captain Kenny Miller's opinion of the game.

The Sun has words from Scotland coach Craig Levein who dismisses Landon Donovan's performance, and says he has better players that he would take over Donovan every time.

-Levein does not look real smart making comments like that on night like that.

The Herald of Scotland with a match report.

The Herald Scotland sees the game as a bad ending to a terrible season of football in Scotland.

The Herald Scotland talks to Tim Howard about his teammates who play club soccer at Rangers.

Mark Guidi of the Daily Record with a match report, and Scotland player by player assessments.

And for the local perspective we check in with the Florida Times Union:

-A big turnout in Jacksonville.

-44,438 a great attendance - too bad there won't be half that many in 10 days when the USA plays a game that counts in Tampa.

-The Tartan Army was in full effect.

-What about Sams Army and the American Outlaws? They were the only ones you could hear on TV!

-Match report.

Match report by US Soccer.

Video of match highlights by US Soccer.

Video of USA post game press conference by US Soccer.

USA player ratings by Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

Post game analysis by Brian Straus of Sporting News.

Post game analysis by Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

Match report by Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

Post game analysis by Goff.

Post game analysis and USA player ratings by Jeff Carlisle of ESPN.

Post game notes and stats by Paul Carr and Jacob Nitzberg of ESPN.

Match report by Simon Evans of Reuters.

Post game analysis by Evans.

USA player ratings by Avi Creditor of Sports Illustrated.

Match report by Ives Galarcep of Fox Soccer.

USA player ratings and photos by Fox Soccer.

More behind the scenes video from US Soccer - The 23.

Steven Goff of the Washington Post reports on ticket sales for the USA-Brazil game on Wednesday.

Now lets not get ahead of ourselves - Brazil will be a full 100% bigger challenge over Scotland.

Brazil arrived in DC yesterday, and Neymar joined the team after playing for Santos in the Copa Libertadores on Thursday and was given the first friendly off (a 1-3 win against Denmark.)

-If you read Portuguese you can follow along with Brazil at O Globo.

Team USA Viewing In The Twin Cities for USA v Brazil:

The Sweetwater

at the Best Western Kelly Inn

161 Saint Anthony Ave

I-94 and Marion

St Paul

(651) 224-6373

All ages welcome! Lot's of food and drink available.

Map

MLS MATCHES & SCORES

Week 12

-Sat May 26

Houston Dynamo 2-1 LA Galaxy - HD goals by Mike Magee(OG) & Andre Hainault. LAG goal by Edson Buddle.

Venue: BBVA Compass Stadium

Atten: 22,039

Toronto FC 1-0 Philadelphia Union - TFC goal by Danny Koevermans.

Venue: BMO Field

Atten: 18,227

Columbus Crew 2-1 Chicago Fire SC - CC goals by Eddie Gaven & Emilio Renteria. CF goal by Austin Berry.

Venue: Crew Stadium

Atten: 16,024

DC United 3-2 New England Revolution - DCU goals by Brandon McDonald, Dejan Jakovic & Maicon Santos. NER goals by Saer Sene & Benny Feilhaber.

Venue: RFK Stadium

Atten: 14,627

Real Salt Lake 3-2 FC Dallas - RSL goals by Alvaro Saborio(2) & Nat Borchers. FCD goals by Matt Hedges & Blas Perez.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium

Atten: 19,341

Colorado Rapids 3-2 Montreal Impact - CR goals by Jeff Larentowicz(PK), Drew Moor & Jaime Castrillon. MI goals by Patrice Bernier & Andrew Wenger.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park

Atten: 17,877

Portland Timbers 1-1 Vancouver Whitecaps FC - PT goal by Kris Boyd. VW goal by Darren Mattocks.

Venue: Jeld-Wen Field

Atten: 20,438

CD Chivas USA 1-1 Seattle Sounders FC - CUSA goal by Juan Agudelo. SS goal by David Estrada.

Venue: The Home Depot Center

Atten: 12,285

-Sun May 27

Sporting Kansas City 2-1 San Jose Earthquakes - SKC goals by CJ Sapong & Kei Kamara. SJE goal by Simon Dawkins.

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park

Atten: 19,974

MLS MATCH NOTES

EJECTIONS:

Tyrone Marshall - Colorado - two yellow cards

MLS STANDINGS

EAST

27 DC United (+9)

26 New York Red Bulls (+8)

25 Sporting Kansas City (+7)

18 Chicago Fire SC (0)

18 Columbus Crew (0)

-----

16 Houston Dynamo (0)

13 New England Revolution (-2)

12 Montreal Impact (-6)

8 Philadelphia Union (-6)

3 Toronto FC (-13)

WEST

29 Real Salt Lake (+8)

27 San Jose Earthquakes (+10)

24 Seattle Sounders FC (+7)

19 Colorado Rapids (+2)

19 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (-1)

-----

15 CD Chivas USA (-5)

13 Portland Timbers (-3)

13 FC Dallas (-9)

11 LA Galaxy (-6)

NASL SCOREBOARD

With a nearly total lineup of backup players the Stars went to Tampa Bay and put on a fierce defensive display. It was extremely impressive to see them get a clean sheet, unfortunately the offense was not as impressive leaving the game scoreless. But for the intensity of their schedule (6 roads games in a row, and this being the 3rd game in 7 days) that is nothing to complain about. Bravo Stars!

Matches & Scores:

-Fri May 25

Tampa Bay Rowdies 0-0 Minnesota Stars FC

-Sat May 26

Fort Lauderdale Strikers 1-1 Atlanta Silverbacks - FLS goal by Mark Anderson. AS goal by Reinadlo Navia.

-Sun May 27

FC Edmonton 2-2 San Antonio Scorpions - FCE goals by Yashir Pinto & Shaun Saiko. SAS goals by Josue Soto & Aaron Pitchkolan.

-Sat Jun 2

Carolina RailHawks v Puerto Rico Islanders

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v Tampa Bay Rowdies

San Antonio Scorpions v Minnesota Stars

-Sun Jun 3

FC Edmonton v Atlanta Silverbacks

Watch online

Standings

17 Puerto Rico (+11)

16 Minnesota (+6)

15 San Antonio (+2)

12 Tampa Bay (0)

10 Fort Lauderdale (-4)

8 Edmonton (0)

5 Carolina (-7)

5 Atlanta (-8)

LAMAR HUNT US OPEN CUP

And get ready for the Third Round of the US Open Cup on Thursday night with MLS teams joining in on the competition.

The Bracket
