CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Official web site

dN

American Jose Fransisco Torres and his team Pachuca had a much better time on Matchday 2 (Tuesday) beating Metapan 5-0.

dN

Group Stage - Matchday 2

Some Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 26

DC United v Toluca - 7pm Central on FSC & Telefutura

Cruz Azul v Columbus Crew - 9pm Central on FSC & Telefutura

Arabe Unido v Houston Dynamo - broadcast delayed to Thursday at 7pm Central on FSC

MLS

Official League Web Site

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 26

Real Salt Lake v Chivas USA - 9pm Central on Direct Kick

dN

I made a guest appearance this week on the excellent podcast United Mania. Martin, Chris & Mike talk about their beloved DC United every episode, but they are also well versed in all things MLS and USA. So they had me on to talk about my trip to Mexico City, the Mexico v USA game, and World Cup qualifying. It was a blast. Download or listen here.

dN

Shalrie Joseph of New England became and USA citizen - congrats to him, and Luciano Emilio of DC got his green card.

MLS EXPANSION

The Vancouver Province with an article about possible stadium trouble in Vancouver. Not what you want to hear about right now. (thanks to BR for this link)

USL FIRST DIVISION

Beau Dure of USA Today with an article on the Portland Timbers, their 23 games unbeaten run, the Timbers Army, and a look ahead to a move up to MLS. (But don't get me started on their head coach.)

dN

Official Web Site

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Pitch Invasion has it's second article from Peter Wilt in which he discusses Customer Service. Almost every American soccer organization I have ever dealt with could use a massive upgrade in this department.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Jozy Jozy Jozy! He got his first start for Hull and it all came up roses. He nabbed his first goal, and it was the game winner.

dN

Jonathan Spector was on the field for West Ham against in ugly mess with fans trying to kill each over. It would be very interesting to hear what he has to say about it all.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - League Cup 2nd Round

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - played the full 90, scoring the winning goal as they beat Southend United at home 3-1.

Mike Grella - Leeds - started and played 83 minutes as they won 2-1 at home over Watford.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - got his shot in goal, taking the game scoreless through extra time, got himself a Yellow Card for time wasting, then won it 6-5 on PK's over Swindon Town.

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - went the distance but they lost 2-0 at Port Vale.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played the entire game as they won 3-1 over Millwall.

EUROPA LEAGUE - Playoff Round 2nd Leg

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Thu Aug 27 at Amkar Perm (3-1)

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - Thu Aug 27 at Valencia (0-3)

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Thu Aug 27 v Rapid Vienna (0-1)

Ryan Guy - St Patrick's Athletic - Thu Aug 27 v Steaua Bucuresti (0-3)

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - Thu Aug 27 v Rapid Vienna (0-1)

Tim Howard - Everton - Thu Aug 27 at Sigma Olomouc (4-0)

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Thu Aug 27 at Amkar Perm (3-1)

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE - Group Stage Matchday 2

Jose Fransisco Torres - Pachuca - played the full 90 as they beat Metapan 5-0 at home.

MEXICO

There's a pretty cool exhibition game for those of us in the midwestern USA to check out: Guadalajara v America in Kansas City on Wed Sep 16! Oh yeah. Love to see the big kids beat each other up even if it doesn't count in the standings. Plus it's my brother's birthday, hard to top that combo.

ENGLAND

Martin Samuel of the Daily Mail writes about an old fashioned ugly scene last night in London with Millwall and West Ham fans trying to kill each other and the game.

Dominic Fifield of the Guardian on the mess too.

The Guardian also has an article from a West Ham fan who is completely embarrassed by his fellow supporters.

SPAIN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian gives us a preview of La Liga for 09/10. And there is even more to life than Real Madrid. Barely.

ITALY

Kevin McCarra of the Guardian with an article on Inter, Samuel Eto'o and the their hopes of big success in the Champions League this season.

EUROPE

After several months hemming and hawing Pavel Nedved has finally announced that this playing days are over.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Official web site

By winning their Play-off Round series this week Olympiacos, APOEL, Arsenal, Stuttgart, Fiorentina, Atletico Madrid, Debreceni, Lyon, Maccabi Haifa and Zurich join 22 pre-ordained teams in the group stage that begins on Sep 15. The draw for those groups will be held Thu Aug 27 in Nyon, Switzerland.
