STARTERS

Aaaaahhhh, the MJ tribute shirt. So special. Get yours today from The Onion Bag. I dare you to wear it. (thanks to ADSL for this one)

TEAM USA GOLD CUP

Group Stage Matchday 2:

-Wed Jul 8

USA 2-0 Honduras - USA goals by Santino Quaranta & Brian Ching.

Venue: RFK Stadium, Washington DC

Match report from US Soccer.

Post game quotes by coach & player from US Soccer.

Post game analysis by Paul Gardner of Soccer America.

Match report by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Player grades by Mahoney.

Match report from the Washington Post.

Match report by John Haydon of the Washington Times.

dN

du Nord 3(4) Stars of the Game

3. Kyle Beckerman - again played the center of midfield and controled the game a whole lot. Sure he had some giveaways, but unlike most players he went straight in to retrieve it for his team and almost every time he got the job done. Plus his passing was always forward moving, rarely backward - I love it!

2. Santino Quaranta - of course the big story of the night was Tino getting back on the field for the USA, at his clubs home field none the less, and then he nails the big goal. What a story. And he played some pretty mean defense when he had to as well. He earned it.

1. Charlie Davies & Benny Feilhaber - the moment these two stepped on to the field the game was over. They changed everything - the tempo, the skill, the diversity, the danger. Amazing to watch that happen for 2 young guys.

Others of note: Chad Marshall, Steve Cherundolo, Heath Pearce & Troy Perkins.

dN

How bad did you want Frankcooper to get a goal at the end. I just wanted to see him celebrate with the Monster Mash!

dN

Freddy Adu leaves the USA team after last nights game, so he can get ready to be a part of Benfica's preseason training from day 1. Good luck Fredua!

dN

Brian Strauss at Fanhouse ponders Freddy's club and country situation.

dN

Greg Lalas at Sports Illustrated looks at the USA national team over the past few weeks and tries to see the future.

dN

USMNT Official Blog

CONCACAF GOLD CUP

Official Gold Cup Website

dN

Group Stage Matches

Matchday 1:

-Fri Jul 3

Canada 1-0 Jamaica

Costa Rica 1-2 El Salvador

-Sat Jul 4

Honduras 1-0 Haiti

Grenada 0-4 USA

-Sun Jul 5

Panama 1-2 Guadeloupe

Nicaragua 0-2 Mexico

Matchday 2:

-Tue Jul 7

Jamaica 0-1 Costa Rica - CR goal by Celso Borges.

El Salvador 0-1 Canada - Can goal by Ali Gerba.

Venue: Crew Stadium – Columbus OH

-Wed Jul 8

USA 2-0 Honduras - USA goals by Santino Quaranta & Brian Ching.

Haiti 2-0 Grenada - Hai goals by Fabrice Noel & James Marcelin.

Venue: RF Memorial Stadium – Washington DC

-Thu Jul 9

Guadeloupe v Nicaragua - 7pm Central

Mexico v Panama - 9pm Central

Venue: Reliant Stadium – Houston TX

dN

See all games on FSC & Univision/Galavision.

dN

Standings:

Group A - 2 games played

6 Canada(+2)

3 El Salvador(0)

3 Costa Rica(0)

0 Jamaica(-2)

Group B - 2 games played

6 USA(+6)

3 Haiti(+1)

3 Honduras(-1)

0 Grenada(-6)

Group C - 1 game played

3 Mexico(+2)

3 Guadeloupe(+1)

0 Panama(-1)

0 Nicaragua(-2)

MLS

MLS Week 17 Matches & Scores:

-Sat Jul 11

Seattle Sounders FC v Houston Dynamo - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

New England Revolution v Kansas City Wizards - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Chicago Fire v Columbus Crew - 7pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Colorado Rapids v FC Dallas - 8:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

San Jose Earthquakes v Toronto FC - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Chivas USA v Los Angeles Galaxy - 10pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

dN

Grahame Jones of the LA Times talks to Landon Donovan and Bruce Arena about Grant Wahls book.

dN

AP with the latest installment of "Dropping Bags of Dirt On Beckman", as we get new excerpts from Grant Wahl's biographical upcoming book.

dN

Steve Davis of ESPN Soccernet gives his thoughts on the early fallout from the Beckman book.

dN

Real Salt Lake announced today that their shirt sponsor Xango has extended their deal through the 2013 season.

dN

When the Crew visit the White House next week they will be re-united with former coach Sigi Schmid who wil make the trip with the team. That seems a little odd to me.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch wonders if Brad Evans had a bigger impact on last years team than anyone knew.

dN

Mitchell also reports on the Crew's Stanley Nyazamba who has been on the squad but never played - he has been arrest for DUI, and has had previous run ins with Johnny Law leading the team to release the player this week.

dN

Both the Deseret News AND the Salt Lake Tribune have stories on RSL striker Yura Movsisyan and his 2010 move to Rander in Denmark. Or is he leaving next week?

dN

The Boston Examiner talks to New England's new Lithuanian forward Edgaras Jankauskus. He made his debut for the Revs last weekend at LA coming on for the last 30 minutes of a 1-0 loss.

dN

Jeff Bradley at MLSnet describes his idea of a "quality team".

dN

Put a fork in him - Bozo Bautista will not be pulling on any MLS shirt this year as he has re-signed with Chiapas Jaguares.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post updates us on the young guns of the Red Bulls academy team.

USL FIRST DIVISION

I wanted to throw this one out there to you the reader cuz I don't know the answer or have a theory - Note from long time reader and frequent emailer Bart:

Quick USL-1 query. Why did the Charleston Battery draw less than half a stadium ( 2,473 people) for its US Open Cup match against Houson the other day? Are there really no more soccer fans than that in one of Carolina's major cities?

What do you all think?

Even my Thunder who have a marketing budget that resembles 0 drew 3878 for their corresponding match against Kansas City.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Jul 9

Vancouver Whitecaps v Minnesota Thunder

-Fri Jul 10

Rochester Rhinos v Puerto Rico Islanders

-Sat Jul 11

Charleston Battery v Carolina RailHawks

Minnesota Thunder v Montreal Impact

Austin Aztex v Portland Timbers

-Sun Jul 12

Cleveland City Stars v Puerto Rico Islanders

Miami FC Blues v Vancouver Whitecaps

dN

Standings:

30 Charleston

29 Puerto Rico

27 Portland

24 Carolina

23 Rochester

17 Montreal

17 Miami

- - Out of Playoffs - -

15 Austin

15 Vancouver

10 Cleveland

8 Minnesota

SOCCER IN AMERICA

ABC News with a story on USA President Obama meeting Brazilian President Lula, who gave Obama shit about the USA losing after leading 2-0! Fantastic stuff. Lula also gave Obama a famous yellow Brazil jersey. Very cool.

CONCACAF

Mexico has announced that their World Cup qualifier against the USA on Wed Aug 12 will kick off at 3pm local time. Yes thats right, 3pm on a weekday. Shrews!

ENGLAND

Arsenal has signed their forward Robin van Persie to a new long term contract - do details available.

dN

Liverpool has signed midfielder Steven Gerrard to a new contract taking him through the 2012/13 season.

SOUTH AMERICA

The real Ronaldo has now scored 14 goals in 22 games since joining Corinthians earlier this year - he bagged 3 last night in a 4-2 win over Fluminense.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Cruzeiro did their job in the away leg keeping the home team off the scoreboard, leaving it all in their hands at home next week.

dN

Final

1st Leg Match:

-Wed Jul 8

Estudiantes 0-0 Cruzeiro

2nd Leg Match:

-Wed Jul 15

Cruzeiro v Estudiantes

WORLD CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2010

AP is reporting unrest across South Africa as construction workers hit the picket lines for the second day, halting work on all World Cup related projects in a dispute over pay.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Grant Wahl at Sports Illustrated gives us his list of the 10 most exciting soccer players of all time.

ENDERS

Say you are one of the top high school soccer players in the country and Adidas has invited you to spend a few days this week in Denver at the Colorado Rapids training facility in front of some of the best coaches in the USA. And as you get ready to play a big game of West All Stars v East All Stars you are introduced to a surprise guest player. Who do you think it might be. Would you just freak out if it turned out to be Zinedine Zidane?? How amazingly cool that would be. You are on the field and getting a brilliant pass from Zidane! Hooray Beer indeed! Here is a video clip of the action!
