The USA U17 team kicks off World Cup Qualifying today at 6pm Central time, with a game against Cuba down in Tijuana Mexico. (See full match details at the end of this post)

In honor of that tournament, here is a link for you to check out the marvelously odd little tune "Welcome to Tijuana" by Manu Chao. Crank it up loud! Seriously! And then go buy the fab album Clandistino. It will make your head spin, your heart sing, and your ass shake.

dN

I was interviewed by the awesome Vance Anthem of Dynamo Planet. I am honored & humbled by it. Check it out now!

dN

MLS Week 6 Matches get started a little sooner than usual:

-Wed Apr 22

Toronto v Chivas - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

-Thu Apr 23

Kansas City v New York - 7pm Central on ESPN2

dN

In yesterday's comments section of du Nord, Jin raved about the quality of Kevin Hartman's save on a Chris Rolfe snap header. So here is a video compilation of all Hartman's saves last weekend v Chicago. Sorry Fire fans, not trying to rub it in, but these are beauties.

dN

DC star Jaime Moreno became the first person in MLS history with to cross the 100 goals and 100 assists barrier.

dN

Josh Wolff of KC has been named MLS Player of the Week.

dN

MLS Daily has the 11th installment of their series featuring posts from Real Salt Lake midfielder Will Johnson. Great stuff on a great site.

dN

Steve Davis at MLSnet takes a look at the stagnant water that most of the leagues #10's are standing in as the season moves toward Week 6. And other great notes & observations from the excellent Davis.

dN

Nick Green of the LA Daily News tells us what he Loves and Loathes about MLS so far this season. Some really good stuff here.

-My favorite line: Love: The absence of David Beckham ... nearly every Galaxy player and coach has said, a much better locker-room atmosphere." wow!

-My least favorite line: Loathe: Referee Tim Weyland ... "handing out a staggering 11 cards (including three reds) that had players wondering what sort of contact would be tolerated." What was he supposed to do, let them kill each other? Sure it got out of hand, but the tackling in that game was vicious!

dN

Welcome back to the pitch Benny Feilhaber! He started played 65 minutes for AGF aka Aarhus last weekend as they beat Kobenhavn 1-0 at home! Feilhaber blew out his knee almost 2 years ago when the USA U23 team was playing in a tournament in France. He has been fighting his way back from surgery to full strength ever since.

-Jeremiah White started that game too, and went 78 minutes.

dN

CONCACAF U17 World Cup Qualifying

All games played in Tijuana Mexico

Group A

Canada

Cuba

Honduras

USA

Group B

Costa Rica

Guatemala

Mexico

Trinidad & Tobago

Group Stage:

-Tue Apr 21

Honduras v Canada

Cuba v USA

-Wed Apr 22

Guatemala v Costa Rica

Mexico v Trinidad & Tobago

-Thu Apr 23

Honduras v Cuba

USA v Canada

-Fri Apr 24

Costa Rica v Trinidad & Tobago

Mexico v Guatemala

-Sat Apr 25

Canada v Cuba

USA v Honduras

-Sun Apr 26

Trinidad & Tobago v Guatemala

Mexico v Costa Rica

Semifinals:

-wed Apr 29

A1 v B2

B1 v A2

Final & 3rd Place:

-Sat May 2
