QUESTION ON MY MIND

Will we ever know what happened in the Charlie Davies car accident? Who was driving? How did the crash occur? What was he doing out past 3am? Maybe he had special dispensation from the coach to be out late. Who knows.

Maybe this info is too private, but I know that these are things the fans would like to read about.

But if we learned anything this summer, US Soccer is amazing at keeping this kind of news out of our hands. Remember at the Confederations Cup when Michael Bradley was given a Red Card, and then we read later in a Spanish newspaper that he may have had an altercation with the game officials after the match ended? We never heard at all what went down. Not a word. Yet FIFA slammed him with a 4 game suspension. Can you imagine what you would have to do on the field to get 4 games. Those are not handed out lightly, so something serious obviously happened, and us fans are not privileged to that information. Take it a step further back from that - Why didn't Juergen Klinsmann get hired as the USA coach after WC 06?

US Soccer must have some power clamps on reporters to keep that info quiet. Can you imagine those stories not coming out from the other top sports in America? Nope!

So what is the deal?

PS. There is a good chance that I am the only one on Earth that thinks about this, and in the grand scheme its just not important. That would fit with the way most of my life works.

STARTERS

Not a good night in Glasgow for Maurice Edu as [a couple of] his own Rangers fans taunted him with racist bullshit after the team lost in the Champions League. Here is his Twitter message this morning: "Not sure what hurt more: result last nite or being racially abused by couple of r own fans as I'm getting in my car"

dN

Landon Donovan has been named the 2009 Honda Player Of The Year by Futbol de Primera. This is the 6th time he has won the award.

dN

It's hard to know exactly what this means in the long run, but Fulham of London and the Boston Red Sox have formed a commercial partnership. There is talk of a Premier League game being played at the old baseball field. The Boston Globe fills us in from the Rex Sox side of things.

dN

The Columbus Crew has advanced to the knock out stage of the CONCACAF Champions League. DC United must wait until Thursday to learn their fate.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The last round of the group stage.

dN

Official Web Site, and video highlights from all the games.

dN

Matchday 6:

-Tue Oct 20

Toluca 1-1 DC United - Tol goal by Israel Lopez(PK). DCU goal by Chris Pontius.

Puerto Rico Islanders v Columbus Crew - PRI goal by Noah Delgado. CC goal by Emilio Renteria.

Saprissa 1-2 Cruz Azul - Sap goal by Kendall Watson. CA goals by Ramon Nunez & Pablo Zeballos.

-Wed Oct 21

Pachuca v Arabe Unido

W Connection v Real Espana

Metapan v Houston Dynamo

-Thu Oct 22

San Juan Jabloteh v Marathon

Comunicaciones v UNAM Pumas

dN

Standings (after 5 of 6 Games Played):

Group A

ADV - 12 Pachuca (5 GP)

10 Arabe Unido (5 GP)

7 Houston Dynamo (5 GP)

ELIM - 0 Metapan (5 GP)

Group B

ADV - 13 Toluca (6 GP)

10 DC United (6 GP)

9 Marathon (5 GP)

ELIM - 0 San Juan Jabloteh (5 GP)

Group C

ADV - 16 Cruz Azul (6 GP)

ADV - 8 Columbus Crew (6 GP)

ELIM - 5 Saprissa (6 GP)

ELIM - 3 Puerto Rico Islanders (6 GP)

Group D

ADV - 13 UNAM Pumas (5 GP)

6 Comunicaciones (5 GP)

6 Real Espana (5 GP)

4 W Connection (5 GP)

dN

The first tie breaker is head to head.

-DC holds that tiebreaker over Marathon.

-Houston holds the tiebreaker over Arabe.

MLS

Week 32 - The Final Round

Matches & Scores:

-Thursday, October 22

Chicago Fire v Chivas USA - 7pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Value: both fighting for playoff seeds

-Saturday, October 24

New York Red Bulls v Toronto FC - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

Value: Toronto must win for a play off spot.

Kansas City Wizards v DC United - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Value: DC must win to get a playoff spot.

Real Salt Lake v Colorado Rapids - 8pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Value: Salt Lake on the outside of the playoffs need the win and help from others, while Colorado has to hang on to their playoffs spot.

Seattle Sounders FC v FC Dallas - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Value: Seattle playing for seeding, and Dallas needs the 3 points to miraculously make the playoffs.

Los Angeles Galaxy v San Jose Earthquakes - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Value: LS wants the #1 spot in the West,

-Sunday, October 25

Chivas USA v Houston Dynamo - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Value: both teams want the top seed in the West.

Columbus Crew v New England Revolution - 4pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Value: The Crew want to take the Supporters Shield, while New Eng need the win the make the playoffs.

dN

Seven teams are fighting for the final 3 playoff spots this weekend. And the first tie breaker is head to head games. I made a table to chart out who has the advantage. The second tie breaker is overall goal difference, which we can't calculate until the final whistle. Also, if more than two teams are tied on the same point total then head to head is out and goal difference is the first tie breaker. So here we go:

dN

Beau Dure of USA Today looks at the insaneness of the playoff race.

MLS EXPANSION

Miami Soccer Fan does a Q & A with Marcelo Claure who was bidding for a MLS team in Miami with Barcelona. Why didn't it work? And is there a future?

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

The Kansas City Star editorial board is pimping hard for the Kansas to build the Wizards a stadium just across the state line from Kansas City Missouri.

-I have been out to that part of the KC metro area would not wish it on my enemies. But if that is where they build a stadium then that is where they build it. The other teams that have remote suburban stadiums have not felt any benefit in attendance numbers or atmosphere. The 2 teams that play downtown, Toronto & Seattle, are a force to be reckoned with. On the other hand, Kansas City is no Toronto or Seattle when it comes to urban energy.

USA @ U17 WORLD CUP

Group Stage Matches & Scores:

-Mon Oct 26

Spain v USA - 1pm Central on ESPNU & Galavision

-Thu Oct 29

USA v Malawi - 10am Central on ESPNU

-Sun Nov 1

USA v UAE - 9am Central on ESPNU

-You can also watch all 3 games online at ESPN360.com

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

FIFA has told us that Schalke's German defensive midfielder Jermaine Jones can now officially play for the USA.

-That's if he is ever healthy enough again.

dN

Coming Up:

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

-Thu Oct 22

Bryan Arguez - Hertha Berlin - v Heerenveen

Clint Dempsey - Fulham FC - v Roma

Greg Garza - Sporting - at Ventspils

Tim Howard - Everton - at Benfica

Jared Jeffrey - Club Brugge - v Partizan

Eddie Johnson - Fulham FC - v Roma

Matt Luzunaris - Rapid Wien - at Hapoel Tel-Aviv

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

It was a completely upside down day with only 1 home team winning, Inter & Arsenal drawing, and Barcelona, Liverpool & Rangers LOSING at home! What just happened?

dN

Matchday 3:

-Tue Oct 20

Debreceni 3-4 Fiorentina - Deb goals by Peter Czvitkovics, Gergely Rudolf & Adamo Coulibaly. Fio goals by Adrian Mutu(2), Alberto Gilardino & Mario Santanta.

Liverpool 1-2 Lyon - Liv goal by Yossi Benayoun. Lyo goals by Maxime Gonalons & Cesar Delgado.

Barcelona 1-2 Rubin Kazan - Bar goal by Zlatan Ibrahimovic. RK goals by Aleksandr Ryazantsev & Gokdeniz Karadeniz.

Inter 2-2 Dynamo Kyiv - IM goals by Dejan Stankovic & Walter Samuel. DK goals by Taras Mikhalik & Jucio(OG).

Rangers 1-4 Unirea Urziceni - Ran goal by Ricardo Vilana(OG). UU goals by Marius Bilasco, Kyle Lafferty(OG), Lee McCulloch(OG) & Pablo Brandan.

Stuttgart 1-3 Sevilla - Stu goal by Elson. Sev goals by Sebastien Squillaci & Jesus Navas(2).

AZ Alkmaar 1-1 Arsenal - AZA goal by David Mendes Da Silva. Ars goal by Cesc Fabregas.

Olympiacos 2-1 Standard Liege - Oly goals by Kostas Mitroglou & Ieroklis Stoltidis. SL goal by Igor De Camargo.

-Wed Oct 21

Bordeaux v Bayern Munich

Juventus v Maccabi Haifa

CSKA Moskva v Manchester United

Wolfsburg v Besiktas

Real Madrid v Milan

Zurich v Marseille

Porto v APOEL

Chelsea v Atletico Madrid

dN

Group Stage Standings

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

The 3rd of 6 Group Stage games is on Thu Oct 22.
