USA 1-1 Jamaica

-Not a very inspired match, but a test nonetheless for some players who still need serious testing. I got very little enjoyment from watching the match, but was not bothered in the least by it either.

The du Nord 3 USA stars of the game

3. John O'Brien - Anytime here can take the field at this point is a great day. I can't wait to see more.

2. Landon Donovan - His touch on the ball is getting so good its scary. It will be a joy to see him play with players of his caliber and not be the sole focus of defenses at the World Cup.

1. Ben Olsen - Even though he does not have the speed he once had, he still plays like a demon out there, and rarely makes big mistakes. He got the goal off a keeper who was not prepared and had sticks of butter attached to his gloves.

-From the daily papers and web sites:

New York Times - game analysis from Jere Longman

Yanks Abroad - match report by Alex Abnos

American Soccer News - match report by Llew Llewellyn

US Soccer - post game video and podcasts

Los Angeles Times - match report by Grahame Jones

Soccernet - game analysis & player ratings by Michael Lewis - and - match report & player ratings by Jeff Carlisle

Soccer Times - game analysis & player ratings by Robert Wagman

It was fun seeing so many soccer fans out at the Sweetwater last night getting geared up for the Minnesota Thunder season which kicks off April 23. The team GM Djorn Buchholz and Player Director (former MLSer) Manny Lagos were on hand and spoke to the massive. This time of year its great to see everyone cuz it signals that the season is finally here. Hope to see even more of you out at the season opener seeing as the game is free. April 23 v the hated Seattle at The Jimmy (94 & Lex in St Paul) 3pm kickoff, but get their early for pregame partying and to get a good seat.

USA & Hannover right back Steve Cherundolo writes for USA Today! His first "Postcard from Hannover"

Jack Bells weekly soccer column in the New York Times

Yesterday I dogged the people of Dallas for supporting kids teams from Europe & Mexico more then their own local squad. But I have been shown a new light and owe them a bit of an apology. Seems that 17,000 people showed up at Pizza Hut Park to watch youth teams from Manchester United, Real Madrid & UANL Tigres, but, and here is the kicker, it turns out that this was not PAID attendance. Every kid who plays on a team in the tournament could go to this game. So it was basically a free-by. Now that is a better sign of reality. Thanks to the great reader for setting me straight.

DJ Walkers Stream Of Consciousness for FC Dallas v Salt Lake.

DC United's Santino Quaranta will be out of action for 3 with a hamstring thingy.

Some more details on potential Barcelona games on American soil this summer from New England Soccer News.

According to the Salt Lake Tribune, the next new MLS team after Toronto will be Cleveland or St. Louis.

The Boston Globe's Frank Dell'apa with more on the circus that is Red Bull.

Have you been asking yourself: "Gee, I wonder what Damani Ralph has been up to since he left Chicago for Rubin Kazan in Russia?" Here is your answer from the Jamaica Gleaner.

MLS Week 2 Single Table

6 Kansas City

6 Dallas

4 DC

4 New England

3 Houston

3 Colorado

3 Chivas USA

2 New York

1 Chicago

1 Los Angeles

0 Columbus

0 Salt Lake

From Reuters: Standard Liege captain Sergio Conceicao has been banned until August 11 for thrusting his shirt into the referee's face after being sent off for spitting in a Belgian Cup semi-final match last month.

The 6 finalists were announced for the English Professional Footballers' Association Player Of The Year

Joe Cole - Chelsea

Steven Gerrard - Liverpool

Thierry Henry - Arsenal

Frank Lampard - Chelsea

Wayne Rooney - Manchester United

John Terry (last years winner) - Chelsea

CUP MANIA:

The CONCACAF Champions Cup Final is set to start tonight, with a Mexican team destined to be the winner:

Toluca v America - see it live at 4pm central FSC

The return leg will be played on April 19 in Mexico City.

Note: They do NOT use the "away goals break ties" rule. All ties will be settled with PK's after extra periods are played.

The Final of the Copa Del Rey (Kings Cup) in Spain is tonight with Real Zaragoza taking on Espanyol in Madrid's Santiago Bernabeu stadium. You can see it at 2:30PM Central on GolTV.

The Italian Cup semi finals wrap up this week.

Last night:

Udinese 2-2 Inter - Inter wins 3-2 on aggregate. Santiago Solari & David Pizarro scored for Inter, with Christian Obodo & Vincenzo Iaquinta (PK) bagging for Udi.

Tonight:

Roma v Palermo (1-2 from first leg)

The FA Cup Round 6 replay is today:

Middlesbrough v Charlton (first match ended 0-0) - see it at 2pm central on FSC

The winner takes on West Ham at Villa Park on Sun April 23

German Cup Semifinals are this week:

Yesterday

Eintracht Frankfurt 1-0 Arminia Bielefeld

Today

St Pauli v Bayern Munchen

The final will be April 29 at Berlin's Olympiastadion

French Cup Quarterfinals

Last Night:

Olympique Marseille 2-1 Olympique Lyon

Paris St Germain 2-1 Lille

Tonight:

Rennes v Montpellier

Calais v Nantes

The draw for the semifinals is on Thursday, with the semifinals being played on April 20 & the Final on April 29.

Copa Libertadores Group stage!! This week’s matches and scores:

Apr 11

Unión Española 1-1 Newell's Old Boys - Grupo 3

Deportivo Cali 2-2 Tigres UANL - Grupo 4

Rocha FC 0-5 Vélez Sarsfield - Grupo 5

Apr 12

Caracas FC - Chivas Guadalajara - Grupo 1

Cienciano - São Paulo FC - Grupo 1

Libertad - Paulista FC - Grupo 8

El Nacional - River Plate - Grupo 8

Apr 13

Independiente Santa Fe - Sporting Cristal - Grupo 2

Estudiantes LP - Bolívar - Grupo 2

Rosario Central - Atlético Nacional - Grupo 7

Palmeiras - Cerro Porteño - Grupo 7
