It's Day 298 of 2016.

Huge congrats to FC Dallas on winning the MLS Supporters Shield.

After claiming the US Open Cup in August they are now 1 trophy away from doing the unprecedented.

dN

Another huge congrats, this one to New York Red Bulls II on winning the USL Championship on Sunday night. They beat Swope Park Rangers 5-1.

Game highlights [VIDEO]

dN

MLS Playoffs - Knockout Round schedule:

-Wed Oct 26

Toronto v Philadelphia Union – 6:30pm CT on ESPN2 + UniMas

LA Galaxy v Real Salt Lake – 9:30pm CT on UniMas

-Thu Oct 27

DC United v Montreal Impact – 6:30pm CT on UniMas

Seattle Sounders v Sporting Kansas City – 9:30pm CT on FS1 + UniMas

Quarterfinals 1st Leg is on Sun Oct 30 and 2nd Leg on Sun Nov 6.

In the East, Red Bulls will host the lower seed of the teams that advance, and NYC the higher seed.

In the West, Dallas will host the lower seed of the teams that advance, and Colorado the higher seed.

dN

Lets do this! Join the MLS Playoffs Bracket Challenge.

And then enter the du Nord Futbol league (#1056)

dN

FACT: No one in American likes soccer, and you would be foolish to go head to head with the NFL:

.@MLS breaks record for most fans in single day: 283,807 on #DecisionDay. And breaks record again for average attendance in season: 21,690.

— Paul Kennedy (@pkedit) October 23, 2016

dN

USWNT at the Metrodome in Minneapolis:

-Sun Oct 23

USA 5-1 Switzerland - Friendly - USA goals by Carli Lloyd (2), Christen Press, Crystal Dunn and Kealia Ohai. Swi goal by Sandrine Mauron.

23,400 attendance

During the game I tweeted that the field was 59/60 yards wide, but my friend Neal pegged it at 69/70. He is better at this than I am. Of course he was right. I need to ask him who to calculate this properly.

The Swiss actually got the first goal of the game on a nice counter attack.

But then the USA just swept the Swiss off the field, including 2 in a row from Carli Lloyd, to take the lead and never look back.

Late in the game we saw a debut and less than 1 minute a goal later from Kealia Ohai, Not a bad way to begin your national team career.

This was the goal of the game. Beauty from Lloyd:

Good lord, @CarliLloyd. ?????? https://t.co/8ZZ8MOq82G

— FOX Soccer (@FOXSoccer) October 23, 2016

dN

My Minnesota United Notes:

I'm not going to touch that game. It's just too painful.

dN

My NASL Notes:

OKC won and took over 4th place from hapless Minnesota who lost.

With OKC winning, the following teams were all eliminated from the post season: Carolina, Tampa Bay, Fort Lauderdale and Miami.

OKC will have to lose and Minn win in the final round for Minn to get the 4th and final playoff position back.

Both OKC and Minn will play at home in their last game. Minn on Sat and OKC on Sun.

dN

NASL Week 27 Results:

-Sat Oct 22

Carolina 1-0 Minnesota

Ft Lauderdale 0-2 OKC

New York 4-0 Miami

Tampa Bay 1-1 Ottawa

Indy 3-0 Puerto Rico

-Sun Oct 23

Edmonton 1-0 Jacksonville

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#1 62 New York

#2 55 Indy

#3 53 Edmonton

#4 44 OKC (+5 GD)

-----

41 Minnesota (+5 GD)

ELIMINDATED:

40 Carolina

39 Tampa Bay

38 Fort Lauderdale

37 Miami

NASL Week 28 Schedule - final round of season:

-Fri Oct 28

Miami v Edmonton

-Sat Oct 29

Ottawa v Ft Lauderdale

Puerto Rico v Carolina

Minnesota v New York

-Sun Oct 30

Jacksonville v Tampa Bay

OKC v Indy

dN

Juan Arango of New York Cosmos named NASL Player Of The Week

dN

My MLS Notes:

By virtue of both Dallas and Colorado tying their games Dallas wins the Supporters Shield for the first time.

Six previous teams have won the Supporters Shield and followed it up with MLS Cup.

New England actually tied with Philadelphia on points and the first tie breaker, wins, in the Eastern Conference battle for the 6th and final playoff spot, but were 8 goals short in the second tie breaker, goal differential.

Philly on the other hand Vikings-ed their way into the playoff. (That is when you are completely inept but the other teams are even more inept and you somehow get rewarded with playoffs.)

First time ever that two teams who met in MLS Cup Final one year both failed to make the playoffs the next year.

Portland finished the season without a single win on the road. They also lost their last 7 road games.

dN

MLS Week 34 Results:

-Sun Oct 23

Colorado Rapids 1-1 Houston Dynamo

LA Galaxy 0-0 Dallas

Sporting Kansas City 2-0 San Jose Earthquakes

Vancouver Whitecaps 4-1 Portland Timbers

Philadelphia Union 0-2 New York Red Bulls

New England Revolution 3-0 Montreal Impact

Seattle Sounders 2-1 Real Salt Lake

New York City 4-1 Columbus Crew

Toronto 3-2 Chicago Fire

Orlando City 4-2 DC United

MLS Supporters Shield:

60 Dallas

58 Colorado

Race for 6th Place (last playoff spot) in MLS:

EAST

46 DC

45 Montreal

42 Philadelphia (11 wins) (-3 GD)

-----

42 New England (11 wins) (-10 GD)

WEST

48 Seattle

47 Kansas City

46 Salt Lake

-----

44 Portland

dN

Bradley Wright Phillips of the Red Bulls wins the golden boot with 24 goals scored.

David Villa of NYC had one less with 23.

dN

Sacha Kljestan of Red Bulls takes the crown for most assists with 19.

dN

Landon Donovan says he is feeling like a soccer player again, 6 weeks into his return. by Helene Elliott of the LA Times.

On Sunday he got his 2nd Galaxy start and first full 90 minutes.

dN

The MLS regular season has concluded after a historic final day of the season. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

Both New York teams in MLS have had very successful seasons, but only one was expected. By Andrew Das of the New York Times.

They were the top 2 teams in the East and had the top 2 goal scorers in the league. Not bad.

dN

Brad Davis has announced that he is retiring at the end of the season. He was a standout for Houston during their 2 championship seasons. He is currently with Kansas City.

dN

Brutal - After Maurice Edu missed the entire 2016 season with a broken left leg he was all set to start the final game of the year on Sunday, but in training on Thursday he broke the same leg again. He has not played since Sep 2015 when he suffered a groin injury.

dN

Americans In Germany:

Christian Pulisc had another big game for Dortmund. He came on as a half time sub and after the team went down 3-1 at Ingolstadt he got an assist and then scored the tying goal in 2nd half stoppage time.

John Brooks, Timmy Chandler and Fabian Johnson all played the full 90 minutes.

Aron Johannsson came on as a sub.

Bobby Wood was a late sub too, and his 2 goals in games 1 + 2 of the season remain Hamburgs only goals of the season so far. Awful team stat. Per Brian Sciaretta.

dN

Americans In England:

Geoff Cameron, Eric Lichaj, Jonanthan Spector, Danny Williams and DeAndre Yedlin all went 90 minutes.

dN

The Bob Bradley + Swansea City Tracker:

Results - Sat Oct 22 - D 0-0 v Watford

Standings - 19th Place, 2 Points into Relegation

Up Next - Mon Oct 31 at Stoke City

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Results - Fri Oct 21 W 2-0 v Chiapas

Standings - 1st Place, 3 Point Lead

Up Next - Sun Oct 30 at Toluca

dN

My Liga MX + Americans In Mexico notes:

With 3 round left to play Tijuana has a 3 point lead at the top over Pachuca and 4 points over Tigres.

Michael Orozco has been a regular in the Tijuana defense.

Paul Arriola has been a consistent substitute for Tijuana.

Omar Gonzalez starting centerback for the 2nd place team Pachuca.

Jose Torres has started almost every game for Tigres who sit in 3rd place.

William Yarbrough is the starting keeper for Leon who have fought back from the bottom of the table and this week grabbed the 8th and final playoff spot.

Jonathan Bornstein is the starting left fullback for Queretaro, who sit in 15th place and 7 pts out of a playoff position.

Jorge Villafana has lost his staring left fullback job in the last month at Santos Laguna who are struggling in 16th place.

The Bird Is The Word
