It's Day 66 of 2017.

To my delight and astonishment I realized that du Nord Futbol blog is 12 years old today. To steal a line from the greats: What a long strange trip its been.

dN

Weather forecast for Minnesota United home opener - Sun Mar 12, light snow and a high of 34! Awesome.

dN

YES! A pronunciation guide, direct from the player himself - John Alvbage - Minnesota United goalkeeper.

dN

3 very handy tips for new fans attending professional soccer. by Nach Karnik of Fifty One Fifty.

You should probably print this out and put it in your wallet for future reference.

dN

Landon Donovan is now part of the investor's group that is trying to bring MLS to San Diego.

dN

The groups have been drawn for the 2017 Gold Cup:

Group A

Canada

Costa Rica

French Guiana

Honduras

Group B

Haiti/Nicaragua Winner

Martinique

Panama

USA

Group C

Curacao

Jamaica

Mexico

El Salvador

USMNT match schedule:

-Sat Jul 8

USA v Panama - Nashville

-Wed Jul 12

USA v Martinique - Tampa

-Sat Jul 15

USA v Haiti/Nicaragua - Cleveland

dN

Who have been the best players in Liga MX so far this Spring? A great list. By Cesar Hernandez for Four Four Two.

dN

I love a good insult:

Found another great image from Portland giving @MNUFC the business! @AnAbnos pic.twitter.com/LUanzug0B0

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) March 7, 2017

dN

MLS

Diego Valeri of Portland named MLS Player Of The Week.

The best and worst from Week 1. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

Eleven points of interest from opening weekend. By Alexander Abnos for Sports Illustrated.

Atlanta seemed to have everything going their way until they didn't, and opened like most every other expansion team ever - with a loss. By Doug Roberson for the Atlanta Journal Constitution.

Some insight on what Minnesota might see on Sunday from Atlanta.

MLS HQ has moved into some pretty damned swanky new office space. From Sports Business Journal.

Three teams found hit hard to draw big opening game crowds.

Columbus - 15,023

Colorado - 16,126

DC - 18,268

We know that DC has a new stadium coming and hope that helps, but what are Columbus and Colorado, along with Chicago, New England and Dallas going to do about the poor attendance.

dN

USA NATIONAL TEAM

Who is Bruce Arena looking at for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers, and who is on the fence? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Arena also doesn't think there will be any issues between Tim Howard and foreign born American players, who Howard has questioned in the past about loyalty and commitment.

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

dN

UEFA Champions League - Round of 16 Matches:

2nd Leg

-Tue Mar 7

Arsenal v Bayern (1-5)

Napoli v Real Madrid (1-3)

-Wed Mar 8

Dortmund v Benfica (0-1)

Barcelona v PSG (0-4)

The Bird Is The Word
