It's Day 316 of 2016.

Congrats to Christian Ramirez and Justin Davis of Minnesota United who have been named NASL Best 11 for the 3rd consecutive season. (see the rest of the list below)

dN

Lets Get This Hexy Started!

Its gameday! USA v Mexico in Columbus - CONCACAF World Cup qualifying. 6:45pm CT on FS1.

The United States Men's National Team is the most ethnically diverse soccer team in the world. By Simon Evans of the Washington Post.

dN

If you are a talented Mexican-American kid living near the border its a tough decision on where to go try and be a pro - stay in the USA or move to Mexico? By Sam Borden of the New York Times.

dN

All the match previewing you can handle:

Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC

Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC

Tom Marhsall of ESPNFC

Noah Davis of ESPNFC

Jason Davis of ESPNFC

Caitlyn Murray of Fox Sports

Thomas Hautman of Fox Sports

Michael Arace of Columbus Dispatch

Allison Ward of Columbus Dispatch

Kellen Becoats of Columbus Dispatch

Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated

Steven Goff of Washington Post

Graham Parker of the Guardian

dN

USA Roster

G

Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough

Ethan Horvath - Molde

Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

William Y4arbrough - Leon

D

Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City

Steve Birnbaum - DC United

John Brooks - Hertha Berlin

Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham

Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt

Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca

Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach

Michael Orozco - Tijuana

DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M

Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union

Michael Bradley - Toronto

Lynden Gooch - Sunderland

Julian Green - Bayern Munich

Jermaine Jones - Colorado Rapids

Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls

Christian Pulisic - Dortmund

Caleb Stanko - Vaduz

Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F

Jozy Altidore - Toronto

Alan Gordon - LA Galaxy

Aron Johannsson - Werder Bremen

Bobby Wood - Hamburger

dN

The Hex - CONCACAF World Cup qualifying schedule:

Matchday 1

-Fri Nov 11

USA v Mexico - 6:45pm CT on FS1

Honduras v Panama - 1:30pm CT

Trinidad + Tobago v Costa Rica - 5pm CT

Matchday 2

-Tue Nov 15

Costa Rica v USA - 8:00pm CT on beIN Sports

Honduras v Trinidad + Tobago

Panama v Mexico

dN

Mexico roster:

G

Guillermo Ochoa - Granada

Alfredo Talavera - Toluca

Jesus Corona - Cruz Azul

D

Diego Reyes - Espanyol

Hector Moreno - PSV Eindhoven

Carlos Salcedo - Fiorentina

Miguel Layun - Porto

Hugo Ayala - Tigres UANL

Rafael Marquez - Atlas

Nestor Araujo - Santos Laguna

Oswaldo Alanis - Guadalajara

M

Hector Herrera - Porto

Jonathan dos Santos - Villarreal

Andres Guardado - PSV Eindhoven

Marco Fabian - Eintracht Frankfurt

Giovani dos Santos - LA Galaxy

Jesus Duenas - Tigres UANL

Orbelin Pineda - Guadalajara

Jurgen Damm - Tigres UANL

F

Carlos Vela - Real Sociedad

Jesus Manuel Corona - Porto

Raul Jimenez - Benfica

Javier Hernandez - Leverkusen

Hirving Lozano - Pachuca

Oribe Peralta - America

dN

My cautionary note on tonight’s game:

The last proper test of the USMNT game was a brutal 0-4 loss to Argentina in the Copa America. It was the single worst performance I have witnessed from the USMNT in a meaningful game. I had never seen our team get so thoroughly dominated. Yet the outcry from fans and media was muted at best - very little anguish. I think that is a big big mistake.

Today against Mexico and Tuesday at Costa Rica are more important that we can imagine right now. Two losses will put the USA in a hole in World Cup qualifying for sure, but the larger worry is the resulting lack of confidence within the team that could be too big to overcome.

Is this the cycle we don't qualify for the World Cup?

If recent youth team failures are a harbinger then the lights are most certainly dimming or at least flickering. The USMNT needs to win tonight, or things could get ugly, quickly.

So if the ships sinks they are all going down together. No life rafts. No rescue mission. OK:

Sunil Gulati on possibility of coaching change if #USMNT gets bad results in Hex: "We've never changed coaches in qualifying since 1989."

— Paul Kennedy (@pkedit) November 11, 2016

dN

The USA Women played their 2nd to last game of the calendar year, a friendly in San Jose CA, and beat Romania 8-1. Christen Press led the way with 3 goals and an assist. The same two teams play again on Sunday in Carson CA.

dN

The powerful singer and wordsmith Leonard Cohen has passed away. RIP Lenny.

The Partisan

dN

Do-over: du Nord Music Mix Vol 104 (download + extract)

dN

Matt Hedges of Dallas named MLS Defender Of The Year.

dN

NCAA Womens Soccer Tournament - 1st Round, 64 teams:

-Sat Nov 12

Minnesota (#4) v North Carolina State (#13) - 7pm CT at Elizabeth Robbie Stadium in St Paul

dN

NASL Final Schedule:

-Sun Nov 13

#1 New York Cosmos v #2 Indy Eleven - 6pm CT on CBS Sports Network

dN

Tampa Bay Rowdies owner Bill Edwards pulled out of NASL because of its ties to Traffic Sports that have not been resolved. And other NASL tales of woe. By Matthew Hall of the Guardian.

dN

Miami FC owner Riccardo Silva reflects on his first season in NASL. Lots of topics here. From the Telegraph.

dN

NASL Best 11 for 2016

G

Matt VanOekel - FC Edmonton

FB

Ayoze - New York Cosmos

Justin Davis - Minnesota United

CB

Albert Watson - FC Edmonton

Carlos Mendes - New York Cosmos

M

Nazmi Albadawi - Carolina RailHawks

Juan Arango - New York Cosmos

Joe Cole - Tampa Bay Rowdies

Michel - Rayo OKC

F

Christian Ramirez - Minnesota United

Eamon Zayed - Indy Eleven

dN

A review of the top Americans in the Bundesliga after the first 1/3 of the season. By Raphael Honigstein.

dN

CONMEBOL World Cup qualifying:

Some BIG winners last night and 1 major shift in the standings.

Brazil blasted their rival Argentina who have now fallen out of the 5th place playoff spot and into 6th. And the game wasn't as close as the score.

Chile got a point and are now into the playoff zone.

Columbia jumping over Ecuador from 4th to 3rd changed.

Paraguay stumbled badly too, having a chance to win at home and jump into the top 4, but no.

Last place team Venezuela came to life and scoring almost as many goals as in the first 10 games combined. What?

Matchday 11-Thu Nov 10

Colombia 0-0 Chile

Venezuela 5-0 Bolivia

Uruguay 2-1 Eduador

Paraguay 1-4 Peru

Brazil 3-0 Argentina

Standings

(11 of 18 games played)

24 Brazil

23 Uruguay

18 Colombia

17 Ecuador

-----

16 Argentina

-----

15 Paraguay

15 Chile

11 Peru

5 Venezuela

4 Bolivia

Matchday 12

-Tue Nov 15

Ecuador v Venezuela

Bolivia v Paraguay

Chile v Uruguay

Argentina v Colombia

Peru v Brazil

The Bird Is The Word
