It's Day 92 of 2016.

US Soccer president Sunil Gulati held an emergency press conference last night to explain their side of the complaint filed by the USWNT players association over pay discrimination. Details by Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

One thing that is very measurable is TV viewership. By Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

After a proper pay increase, what the women want most is respect, an honest assessment, and genuine dialogue from US Soccer, and you cannot deny that that has been lacking. By Sally Jenkins of the Washington Post.

Tim Howard gives his view on the USWNT grievances. [VIDEO] From Sports Illustrated.

I will say this, it doesn't matter right now who is correct between USWNT and US Soccer, the Women are winning the PR game in a big big way.

dN

Hoo Hoo! Another win for Le Havre AC and coach Bob Bradley, winning today 2-0 over 14th place Laval.

HAC is back in the 3rd and final promotion spot with this win today, and now just 6 games left in the season.

Next up: Fri Apr 8 at Brest (9th place)

dN

Minnesota United begins the 2016 season (finally) tomorrow, Sat Apr 2, in Cary NC against the Carolina Railhawks. Game time is 2pm CT. Lots of viewing options: locally on Ch 29 in the Twin Cities, and on ESPN3 via the internet or mobile device.

Minnesota has an impressive list of signings that will lift the team for 2016: Lance Laing, Stefano Pinho, Danny Cruz, Ben Speas, Bernardo Anor, Jeb Brovsky, Damion Lowe, and Ismaila Jome.

As usual, a fun interview with Minnesota head coach Carl Craig, begins at 17:53. [AUDIO] By Neil Morris of WRAL Sports Fan.

-Craig confirms that Minnesota is still looking to bring in another centerback.

-Ibson is expected to join the team in training next week.

-Juliano Vicentini and Jamie Watson did not travel to Carolina.

Family. Today's feature story on Minnesota United's Christian Ramirez. By Andy Greder of the St Paul Pioneer Press. (Part of a weeklong series.)

Wednesday 2: Ben Speas.

Wednesday 1: Kevin Venegas.

Tuesday: Justin Davis

Monday: Sammy Ndjock

dN

Individual NASL team season previews from SBISoccer:

Minnesota United

Miami

New York Cosmos

Edmonton

Jacksonville Armada

Carolina RailHawks

Tampa Bay Rowdies

Ottawa Fury

Indy Eleven

Fort Lauderdale Strikers

Rayo OKC

dN

NASL Week 1:

-Sat Apr 2

Carolina RailHawks v Minnesota United - 2pm CT on My29 and ESPN3

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v Miami

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Indy Eleven

Rayo OKC v Edmonton

-Sun Apr 3

New York Cosmos v Ottawa Fury

-Bye: JA

dN

This is stunning news from Tesla Motors:

Model 3 orders at 180,000 in 24 hours. Selling price w avg option mix prob $42k, so ~$7.5B in a day. Future of electric cars looking bright!

— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) April 1, 2016

dN

Its been a very bad week for the Irish in MLS:

Robbie Keane of LA has had surgery to repair a damaged knee and will be out for 6 weeks.

As reported a couple days ago Kevin Doyle of Colorado suffered a huge gash in his shin that will need 4 weeks to heal.

dN

A conversation with Brad Evans of the Sounders talking about the rough start to the season, 3 games, 3 losses. [VIDEO] By the ESPNFC TV panel.

dN

MLS Week 5

-Fri Apr 1

New England Revolution v New York Red Bulls

-Sat Apr 2

Chicago Fire v Philadelphia Union

Colorado Rapids v Toronto

Sporting Kansas City v Real Salt Lake

Dallas v Columbus Crew

Vancouver Whitecaps v LA Galaxy

Seattle Sounders v Montreal Impact

San Jose Earthquakes v DC United

-Sun Apr 3

Orlando City v Portland Timbers

-Bye: Houston Dynamo + New York City

dN

Its been 11 years since former fans of Manchester United, who hated the modern capitalism of the sport, founded FC United of Manchester. What kind of shape is the club in today? By Daniel Taylor of the Guardian.

dN

Barcelona hosts Real Madrid on Saturday. The two teams seem to be heading in different directions on the field, with Barca seemingly winning everything every year, while Real has only won a handful of trophies this decade. By Jonathan Wilson of Sports Illustrated, who says Real is mismanaged.

The Bird Is The Word
