EXTRA EXTRA READ ALL ABOUT IT

U.S. Soccer Board of Directors Votes Unanimously Not to Sanction USL or NASL for Division II Status in 2010

-US Soccer is giving the 2 leagues another week to come to a compromise that could allow a provisional approval.

I figured this would be the answer at this time. They will get this sorted out one way another, and there will be second tier soccer, we just don't know which cities will have teams and what the league will be called. In other words, nothing has changed.

dN

One fear in all this has to be that if FIFA were to get involved they could threaten the US Soccer federation from expulsion until this mess is settled. FIFA could even go so far as to kick the USA out of the World Cup. It has happened before.

STARTERS

Word going around is that the Washington Times entire sports department is being eliminated meaning we won't see anymore DC United coverage from John Haydon via that paper. Really too bad.

MLS EXPANSION

The Oregonian with the latest updates from Portland on MLS 2011, what they will do for 2010 and stadium renovations.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

The Original Winger do a Q & A with Yahoo Sports soccer writer Martin Rogers. One of the good guys.

US SOCCER NEWS

A reader named Tony sent this one our way: "Further evidence that being a soccer fan is – God forbid!- becoming hip?"

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

John Molinaro of the CBC on the recovery process for Oguchi Onyewu and Charlie Davies.

-Nothing new here, but a good write up none the less.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Brent Latham of Yanks Abroad reports that Benfica were caught offguard by Belenenses dismissing Freddy Adu from his loan deal that ran through to the end of the season.

-But Freddy's latest Twitter contradicts Benfica's surprise: "dont worry my friends this was agreed upon a while ago. Never even met this new coach at Belenenses."

dN

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 reports that Jared Jeffrey has been sold by Club Brugge in Belgium and signed a long term deal with Mainz in Germany. Very cool.

-Here is word from Mainz (in German.)

dN

Seltzer with a slew of other rumors at his great blog No Short Corners.

dN

Yanks Abroad talks to Ian Joyce who seems to have come out of nowhere to grab some time as the goalkeeper for Southend United.

dN

Neither DaMarcus Beasley or Maurice Edu played for Rangers on Wed Dec 30 as they drilled Dundee United 7-1! Yikes! Kris Boyd scored 5 goals.

ENGLAND

Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has personally paid off the teams half a billion dollars in dept! Wow!

dN

Fulham manager Roy Hodgson has signed a contract extension.

dN

Bolton manager Gary Megson has been shown the door. Who takes over now?

dN

The 3rd Round of the FA Cup will be played this weekend. Here are those matches.
