PODCASTS/VIDEOCASTS

Jared Montz on his weekly podcast talked to LA star Landon Donovan. And amongst the chatter is one little item that could be the clue as to why the Galaxy will NOT win the MLS Cup this season - Listen to Landon talk about playing soccer for 20 straight months now, and how worn out he is. Its subtle, but its for real. I find it fascinating that amid all the praise he has gotten for his performance with Everton last winter and at the World Cup this summer, but its the team that pays him the big $$ that could now suffer the consequences.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE GROUP STAGE

Look Out! It's Round 5! Plenty will get decided this week.

Puerto Rico has defied the odds again, and with a home win over Mexican team Toluca its in first place in their group, with a pivotal trip to Olimpia left. Amazing!

Columbus lost the slog in the bog last night, as it went to Guatemala and lost 2-1 to Pando Ramirez of all people. And the game ended with some kind of vague curse word infused rugby scrum on and off the field. There was so much water puddling up that I fully expected a Pirahna 3D attack at any time late in that game.

-Now Columbus will have to go all out in its final group stage match on Oct 21 at Joe Public, unless Municipal lose at Santos Laguna on the 19th.

Seattle got its first CCl win, on a pair of goals from surging rookie Michael Fucito, but its too little too late.

dN

Salt Lake, Cruz Azul and Monterrey all advanced to the knock out rounds last night.

Joe Public joins Toronto, Arabe and Seattle in the eliminated pile.

dN

Round Five Matches & Scores:

-Tue Sep 28

Toronto FC 1-1 Real Salt Lake - TFC goal by Jacob Peterson. RSL goal by Javier Morales.

Cruz Azul 2-0 Arabe Unido - CA goals by Emanuel Villa & Adrian Cortes.

Saprissa 2-2 Monterrey - Sap goals by Severo Meza(OG) & Jose Mena. Mon goals by Luis Rodriguez & Abraham Carreno.

-Wed Sep 29

Puerto Rico Islanders 3-2 Toluca - PR goals by David Foley & David Horst(2). Tol goal both by Hector Mancilla.

Municipal 2-1 Columbus Crew - Mun goals both by Guillermo Ramirez. CC goal by Andy Iro.

Santos Laguna 5-1 Joe Public - SL goals by Jose Reyes, Fransico Torres, Carlos Quintero, Jose Cardenas & Rafael Figueroa. JP goal by Kerry Baptiste.

Seattle Sounders 2-0 Marathon - SS goals both by Michael Fucito.

-Thu Sep 30

FAS v Olimpia

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch with a report on the Crew's trip to Guatemala.

-Here are some video highlights from what Mitchell calls "swamp planet Dabobah."

Joshua Mayers of the Seattle Times reviews the Sounders first CONCACAF win.

-The game was played in front of a Seattle record low 11,768. Which I think is tied with Colorado's high for the season.

dN

GROUP STANDINGS (4 rounds played):

Group A

ADV-10 Cruz Azul (Mexico) (+8) (5 rounds played)

ADV-10 Real Salt Lake (USA) (+4) (5 rounds played)

OUT-5 Toronto (Canada) (-3) (5 rounds played)

OUT-3 Arabe Unido (Panama) (-9) (5 rounds played)

Group B

10 Santos Laguna (Mexico) (+7) (5 rounds played)

9 Columbus Crew (USA) (+3) (5 rounds played)

8 Municipal (Guatemala) (+1) (5 rounds played)

1 Joe Public (Trinidad & Tobago) (-11) (5 rounds played)

Group C

ADV-13 Monterrey (Mexico) (+6) (5 rounds played)

7 Saprissa (Costa Rica) (+3) (5 rounds played)

6 Marathon (Honduras) (-5) (5 rounds played)

OUT-3 Seattle Sounders (USA) (-4) (5 rounds played)

Group D

8 Puerto Rico Islanders (Puerto Rico) (+1) (5 rounds played)

7 Toluca (Mexico) (+5) (5 rounds played)

7 Olimpia (Honduras) (-1)

2 FAS (El Salvador) (-5)

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE GROUP STAGE

Match Day 3 (of 6 Group Stage games) will be played Oct 19/20.

dN

Group Standings.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

If you were starting a MLS team from scratch today and have your choice between Conor Casey and Omar Cummings, who would you choose?

I know how effective Casey is, but how can you resist the effectiveness combined with sheer exhilaration you get from Cummings. He would be my choice hands down.

PICTURE OF THE DAY

What do you do after you have scored a hat-trick in the UEFA Champions League? If you are Samuel Eto'o you might has well take your own celebratory photographs!

MLS WEEK 27

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Sep 29

Colorado Rapids 4-1 Philadelphia Union - CR goals by Omar Cummings(2), Wells Thompson & Quincy Amarikwa. PU goal by Jack McInerney.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Attendance: 10,165

San Jose Earthquakes 0-3 Chicago Fire - CF goals by Steven Kinney, Freddie Ljungberg & Patrick Nyarko.

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 9,829

-Sat Oct 2

Seattle Sounder FC v Toronto FC - 2:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Philadelphia Union v Houston Dynamo - 3:00pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: PPL Park - Chester PA

New York Red Bulls v Kansas City Wizards - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

New England Revolution v Real Salt Lake - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Columbus Crew v San Jose Earthquakes - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Columbus Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

FC Dallas v Chicago Fire SC - 7:30pm Central on FSC

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Colorado Rapids v DC United - 8:00pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

-Sun Oct 3

CD Chivas USA v Los Angeles Galaxy - 7:00pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

MLS PLAYOFF RACE

Colorado drilled PU to solidify their place, while Chicago won on the road at San Jose to keep hope alive.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

With absolutely no surprise at all, Colorado forward Omar Cummings have been named the league's Player Of The Month for September.

-He is now racing to toward the top of the charts with 12 goals in 25 games.

dN

MLS Soccer's 24 under 24 list of players takes us from #15 down to #11.

CHICAGO FIRE

Charlie Corr of ESPN Chicago on the Fire's big win at San Jose, but was it too late?

COLORADO RAPIDS

John Meyer of the Denver Post reports as the Raps run a power move all over Philadelphia.

PHILADELPHIA UNION

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com reviews the Union's flop of a game.

-Keeper Brad Knighton coughed up a terrible rebound into the path of a Colorado player to hammer home for a goal. They just can't get this one right. They might want to seriously go looking for a real keeper in the offseason.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

Elliot Almond of the Mercury News reports on the team that was rolling, and then last night laid an egg.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Former USA star striker and infamous TV commentator Eric Wyndalda has been hired by a 3rd division Mexican team, Murcielagos, as its president of international operations. Interesting.

-Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America does a Q & A with Wynalda about this latest endeavor.

-Jeff Carlisle of ESPN.com talks to Wynalda too.

Murcielagos FC aka Deportivo Guamuchil aka The Bats, plays in Mexico's Segunda Division.

The city of Guamuchil is located in the state of Sinaloa on the northwest coast off the Gulf of California, across the water from the Baja. The state of Sinaloa is sadly considered to be the birth place of the ongoing drug war.

TEAM USA

Going out on to the field after a USA game was on OK experience once. But this is the kind of thing that all of us US Soccer Supporters Club members were thinking would be something cool to experience. So here we go:

As a benefit of being a member of the U.S. Soccer Supporters Club, we are pleased to extend an invitation from U.S. head coach Bob Bradley to attend the Men's National Team's closed-door training session on Tuesday, Oct. 5, at 2 p.m. CT at the practice field at Toyota Park in Bridgeview, Ill. The session is in preparation for the squad's highly-anticipated encounter against Poland on Saturday, Oct. 9, at Chicago's Soldier Field.

This unique opportunity is available to a limited number of U.S. Soccer SC members, so RSVP today to reserve your spot. Each U.S. Soccer SC member that is selected for this experience is welcome to bring one guest.

U.S. Soccer SC members interested in attending this behind-the-scenes experience can submit an RSVP here.

All RSVPs must be submitted by 12 p.m. CT on Friday, Oct. 1.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Sky Sports is reporting that Stuart Holden has a new contract at Bolton.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE - Group Stage

Jozy Altidore - Villarreal - Thu Sep 30 - started and played 86 minutes in a 2-1 home win over Clubb Brugge.

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - Thu Sep 30 - back on the bench, but did not play as they lost 1-0 at Hajduk Split on a PK scored in second half stoppage time.

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Today is Matchday 2. Matches & Scores here.

ENDERS

Are there days when you feel like you just might need a Genuine Swedish Gas Mask to tolerate your favorite team?

After the past 3 seasons, DC United might consider getting some in team colors and selling them at the official store!
