It's Day 106 of 2016.

Putting an end to this saga:

Every retro-activated Red Card in MLS this season has earned the perp a 1 game suspension. But for his incident last weekend LA's Nigel De Jong got a 3 game suspension. I think it should have been 1 like others.

Darlington Nagbe trained with Portland today, unknown if he is available this weekend.

dN

NASL Week 3:

-Fri Apr 15

JA v M - 6:00pm CT on beIN Sports

-Sat Apr 16

CRH v OF

IE v NYC

TBR v E

MU v FLS - 7:00pm CT on MY29 (Twin Cities) + ESPN3.

dN

Bob Bradley + HAC - 5 games left - the race for 3rd place in Ligue 2 + promotion:

-Sat Apr 16

Le Havre v Nancy

dN

One of my favorite music websites is The Quietus, and their section The Bakers Dozen where great artists tells us about their favorite records is tremendous. For the adventurous type.

dN

UEFA Champions League Semifinals:

-Apr 26 + May 4

Manchester City v Real Madrid

-Apr 27 + May 3

Atletico Madrid v Bayern Munchen

Final: May 28 in Milan Italy at Stadio Giuseppe Meazza

So we all want Man City to beat Bayern in the Final just for the awkward angst and anxiety, right?

dN

The Diego Simeone v Pepper Guardiola showdown should be awesome By Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian.

dN

What is the single best goal ever scored for EVERY MLS team? Here is a collection the league made. [VIDEO] Some great ones here, but there are others that are better than some of these too.

dN

After a rally in Sacramento MLS commissioner Don Garber made comments on further expansion plans and goals. By Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

The league would like Minnesota United to join in 2017, but the details are not all in place yet to make that happen. If MNUFC does join its almost certain that they will play home games in Minneapolis at TCF Bank Stadium until their own facility in St Paul is completed.

dN

MLS Week 7 - midweek games:

-Fri Apr 15

Houston v LA - 6:00pm CT on UniMas

-Sat Apr 16

Chicago v Montreal

DC v Toronto

Columbus v New York City

Colorado v Red Bull

Salt Lake v Vancouver

Seattle v Philadelphia

Portland v San Jose

-Sun Apr 17

Orlando v New England - 2:30pm CT on ESPN

Dallas v Kansas City - 6:00pm CT on FS1

The Bird Is The Word
