STARTERS

Happy Birthday Landon Donovan! He is 28 today!

dN

The Guardian reports that Stuart Holden suffered a broken leg against the Netherlands and will be out 6 weeks. Damn it.

dN

The Times of London suggests Bob Bradley has been getting tips on how to beat England from Manchester United coach Alex Ferguson. And hilarity ensues, not to mention innuendo, and no facts.

TEAM USA

Sure that wasn't the best USA game we have seen in the past 2 years, but it was not the worst either. They had a legitimate chance to tie that game in the dying minutes. Yes they left it too late, but at least I went home feeling neutral rather than peeved.

The most positive thing to take from this game for our team is that Holland has even less forwards than we do, and they still succeed.

dN

Friendly Match & Score:

-Wed Mar 3

Netherlands 2-1 USA - Net goals by Dirk Kuyt(PK) & Klass-Jan Huntelaar. USA goal by Carlos Bocanegra.

Venue: Ajax Arena - Amsterdam

Match report from US Soccer.

Match report by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Match report and player ratings by Leander Schaerlackens of ESPN Soccernet.

Match report by George Kaulkin of the Times of London.

Match report from Four Four Two

Post game analysis by Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

-And a few more thoughts from Wahl.

Post game analysis by Ives Galarcep at Fox Soccer.

Player ratings by Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365.

Player ratings by Mahoney of Soccer America.

dN

du Nord 3 Stars Of The Game

3. Jozy Altidore - worked very hard, seemingly by himself, and used his strength to get some half chances, then he showed some skill and trickery too.

2. Wesley Schneider - clearly the best player on the field for either team. I am very surprised he did not shoot more, as he is deadly, but the USA had no one who could stop him.

1. Jonathan Bornstein, for the Dutch! - terrible foul gave the Netherlands their first goal, really poor positioning and a bad glancing shot off his body gave them their second, and the referee showed some mercy by not calling a handball on him right in front of the goal that easily could have been #3. A hideous night to forget for a player who looked like a ball of weird nerves all game long, and made the night easy for the Dutch.

dN

Official Team Blog

30 of 32 WORLD CUP FINALISTS IN FRIENDLY MATCHES THIS WEEK

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 2

Brazil 2-0 Ireland in London, England

-Wed Mar 3

Algeria 0-3 Serbia

Argentina 1-0 at Germany

Australia 1-0 Indonesia

Cameroon 0-0 Italy in Monte Carlo, Monaco

Cote d'Ivoire 0-2 South Korea in London, England

Denmark 1-2 at Austria

England 3-1 Egypt

France 0-2 Spain

Germany 0-1 Argentina

Ghana 1-2 at Bosnia-Herzegovina

Greece 0-2 Senegal

Honduras 0-2 at Turkey

Italy 0-0 Cameroon in Monte Carlo, Monaco

Japan 2-0 Bahrain

Mexico 2-0 New Zealand in Pasadena, California, USA

Netherlands 2-1 USA

New Zealand 0-2 Mexico in Pasadena, California, USA

Nigeria 5-2 Congo DR

Portugal 2-0 China

Serbia 3-0 at Algeria

Slovakia 0-1 Norway

Slovenia 4-1 Qatar

South Africa 1-1 Namibia

South Korea 2-0 Cote d'Ivoire in London, England

Spain 2-0 at France

Switzerland 1-3 Uruguay

Uruguay 3-1 at Switzerland

USA 1-2 at Netherlands

-Thu Mar 4

North Korea at Venezuela in Sa Felipe

-Sat Mar 6

North Korea at Venezuela in Puerto la Cruz

USL/NSAL MESS

Aahhh, you just new the battle between these two groups was not over, even though the compromised on playing in a mutual second division this season.

The USL has announced today a new team in Orlando for 2011 and stated that they plan to apply to be the official 2nd Division in North America. Unfortunately for them they will only have 5 teams, where the NSAL will have at least 11 for 2011.

TRAGEDY IN HAITI

Michael Rand of the Minneapolis Star Tribune is in touch with Tony Sanneh has he hits the ground in Haiti to do what he can. It seems overwhelming. (thanks to BQ for the link)

When you read about things on the ground in Haiti written by someone you know they take on an even more powerful effect. Holy smokes.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Colorado signed forward Conor Casey to a new 3 year contract extension.

dN

Buzz Carrick of 3rd Degree reports on the TV broadcasters for FC Dallas this season.

-Brad Sham in OUT.

dN

Seattle has officially signed forward Blaise Nkufo of Switzerland. He will not join the team until the summer transfer window. He is currently playing for Dutch league leaders Twente.

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

3 new photos from PPL Park in Philly:

one

two

three

-Not to come off all creepy or anything, but when I looked at pic #2 I thought of the movie The Hurt Locker.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The Quarterfinals begin on Tue Mar 9!

US OPEN CUP

Buzz Carrick at 3rd Degree shows us the qualifying process for MLS teams.

USL NEWS

The USL has begun posting their countdown of the Top 25 USL First Division players of the past Decade:

25-21

20

19

18

17

16

15

14

13

12

11

10

1#9 - Greg Howes

SOCCER IN AMERICA

723 Football Films gives us goalography's on 4 more current Americans. (The Donovan & Dempsey editions were both great)

-DaMarcus Beasley

-Eddie Johnson

-Brian Ching

-Carlos Bocanegra

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Leander Schaerlackens of ESPN Soccernet takes a look at one of the great mysteries in the current USA player pool - Eddie Johnson.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 talks to Netherlands and Everton centerback Johnny Heitinga about Landon Donovan, and other things.

dN

Lots of Americans back in action as the Danish Superliga resumes this weekend:

Benny Feilhaber - AGF Aarhus - Sun Mar 7 at Kobenhavn

Yura Movsisyan - Randers - Sun Mar 7 at Esbjerg

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - Mon Mar 8 v AaB

Chris Rolfe - AaB - Mon Mar 8 at Nordsjaelland

Marcus Tracy - AaB - Mon Mar 8 at Nordsjaelland

CONCACAF

International Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Wed Mar 3

Netherlands 2-1 USA

El Salvador 1-2 Guatemala - in Los Angeles CA

Venezuela 1-2 Panama

Mexico 2-0 New Zealand - in Pasadena CA

Turkey 2-0 Honduras
