STARTERS

Portfolio has done a very interesting study of the top American markets available for expansion, and those that are over saturated. Click on the MLS logo to see what the study says. One thing I find every interesting about all of this is how few "major markets" they feel are available.

-And here is the full article it comes from.

dN

In a post entitled "We're getting the band back together" our pal Luis Arroyave of the Chicago Tribune has relaunched the papers soccer blog The Red Card. This is fantastic news. In the time he did the blog Luis became one of the great unique voices in our little corner of the world. (Especially his travel reports.) I am very happy about this.

dN

The FIFA Club World Cup begins tomorrow with the minnows facing off. See section near the end of today's post.

MLS

Ives Galarcep of Soccer By Ives does a Q & A with new NYRB tech dir Erik Stoler. Good stuff.

dN

The Philadelphia Inquirer with an article on the Unions search for a shirt sponsor.

dN

New England has signed new contracts with Kheli Dube, Kenny Mansally & Sainey Nyassi.

dN

Charlie Corr of ESPN Chicago writes about the desire of former players to get the Chicago Fire back to their proud standing.

MLS RUMORS

TFC is chasing Scottish forward Kevin Kyle of Kilmarnock.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expires on Dec 31, 2009.

dN

Nigel Reed of the CBC with his thoughts on the squabbling/negotiating.

dN

You can read the entire Collective Bargaining Agreement right here. (thanks to Beau for the link)

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

Dan Girard of the Toronto Star on the new grass field being installed at TFC's BMO Field.

-The bad news in this article is that the actual sod will not be put down until late March, leaving little time to get it right before the season opens.

USL-1/NASL MESS

The team from St Louis will be called AC St Louis. Oof! Here is their badge:

Can someone remind me - Which athletic club are they part of again? And what are their other sports?

dN

Ryan Johnston of Sports Net reports that fall out from the new/old leagues could affect Montreal and Vancouver's participation in the Canadian Championship tournament that places that winner in the CONCACAF Champions League.

-The Canadian Soccer Association has said that they will wait for the US Soccer Federation to make their decisions before making their own.

US SOCCER NEWS

Mike Woitalla of Soccer America looks at the biggest benefit of American youth clubs forming partnerships with foreign professional clubs - Money.

AMERICANS TRAVELING TO SOUTH AFRICA

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze begins his look at traveling to the World Cup next summer.

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet looks at the USA draw and warns, be careful what you wish for.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Jay DeMerit took to the field again after 3 months out with an eye injury. Great to see him back out there.

-Here's the match report from the team's official website, including high praise for their returned captain.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Championship

Jay DeMerit - Watford - came on as a half time sub and they rolled over QPR at home 3-1.

DENMARK - Superliga

Benny Feilhaber - AGF Aarhus - went the full 90 as they drew 1-1 at home against Esbjerg.

dN

Coming Up:

ENGLAND - Championship

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - Tue Dec 8 at Doncaster Rovers

ENGLAND - FA Cup Round 2

Mike Grella - Leeds - Tue Dec 8 v Kettering Town

MEXICO

Primera Division Liguilla

All playoff rounds are 2 Legs.

Final Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Thu Dec 10

Monterrey v Cruz Azul

2nd Leg

-Sun Dec 13

Cruz Azul v Monterrey

CANADA

The Canadian Press reacts to the hiring of new national team head coach Stephen Hart:

-Daniel Girard of the Toronto Star.

-Stephen Brunt of the Toronto Globe & Mail gives the hiring the thumbs up.

-Paul James of the Toronto Globe & Mail gives the hiring the thumbs down.

-The Vancouver Province

-The Toronto Sun

-The Vancouver Sun

ENGLAND

John Molinaro of the CBC on diving/cheating and how its perceived when "good guy" players do it.

SPAIN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian writes about the magician on the bench at Mallorca, and the rest of the week in La Liga.

GERMANY

Don't look now, but despite all the gnashing to teeth Bayern Munich are up to the 4th place in the league, and just 4 points behind first place Bayer Leverkusen.

EUROPE

AZ Alkmaar who have been surprising contenders the past few seasons in Netherlands are struggling this season and have now fired coach Ronald Koeman. They are said to be chasing Dick Advocaat.

dN

Panathinaikos has fired coach Henk Ten Cate even though they are in 2nd place in Greece and on the verge of advancing in the Europa League.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Here we go for the final group stage matches!

dN

2 defenders from CSKA Moscow have been suspended from today's game because they took Sudafed, which is deemed a performance enhancing drug. You gotta be kidding me.

dN

Half the teams are already advanced to the knock out stage, while the other 8 will be known by the end of Wednesday.

-Here are the team that are through: Arsenal, Bordeaux, Chelsea, Fiorentina, Lyon, Manchester United, Porto & Sevilla.

dN

Either Juvenus or Bayern Munich will be out after today.

dN

Matchday 6

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Dec 8

Juventus v Bayern Munich

Maccabi Haifa v Bordeaux

Besiktas v CSKA Moskva

Wolfsburg v Manchester United

Zurich v Milan

Marseille v Real Madrid

Chelsea v APOEL

Atletico Madrid v Porto

-Wed Dec 9

Liverpool v Fiorentina

Lyon v Debreceni

Inter v Rubin Kazan

Dynamo Kyiv v Barcelona

Stuttgart v Unirea Urziceni

Sevilla v Rangers

Olympiacos v Arsenal

Standard Liege v AZ Alkmaar

dN

Group Standings

SOUTH AMERICA

Ecuador Championship

Deportivo Quito win the Primera A league 4-3 on aggregate. Hooray Depor!

1st Leg

-Sun Nov 29

Deportivo Cuenca 1-1 Deportivo Quito

2nd Leg

-Sat Dec 5

Deportivo Quito 3-2 Deportivo Cuenca

dN

Chile Championship

1st Leg

-Sun Dec 6

Colo Colo 2-2 Catolica

2nd Leg

-Wed Dec 9

Catolica v Colo Colo

dN

Peru Championship

1st Leg

-Tue Dec 8

Alianza Lima v Universitario Lima

2nd Leg

-Sun Dec 13

Universitario Limav Alianza Lima

BRAZIL

Fernando Duarte, who is one cool dude, of the Guardian tells us all about Flamengo and their huge Brazilian championship win. Their first title in 17 years.

ARGENTINA

Just 2 rounds left in the Primera Apertura, and 4 teams want the crown. First next round is mid-week and the final round is next Sunday!

Standings, Matches & Scores - after 17 of 19 games played:

38 Banfield - Last: W 0-1 at Huracan - Next: Wed Dec 9 v Tigre - Finale: Sun Dec 13 at Boca Juniors

36 Newell's Old Boys - Last: L 1-2 at Arsenal de Sarandi - Next: Wed Dec 9 at Gimnasia La Plata - Finale: Sun Dec 13 v San Lorenzo

33 Velez Sarsfield - Last: W 3-1 v River Plate - Next: Thu Dec 10 at Chacarita Juniors - Finale: Sun Dec 13 v Rosario Central

32 Independiente - Last: W 1-2 at Boca Juniors - Next: Tue Dec 8 v Argentinos Juniors - Finale: Sun Dec 13 at Lanus

CLUB WORLD CUP

The tournament is being played in Abu Dhabi, and begins on Wednesday.

-Wed Dec 9 - Match 1

Al Ahli FC v Auckland City FC

-Fri Dec 11 - Match 2

TP Mazembe v Pohang Steelers FC

Sat Dec 12 - Match 3

winner Match 1 v Atlante FC

-Tue Dec 15 - Semifinal

Winner Match 2 v Estudiantes de La Plata

-Wed Dec 16 - Semifinal

Winner Match 3 v FC Barcelona

-Sat Dec 19

Final
