TWITTER

Join us on Twitter: @dunord to get all the special messages we blurt out regularly.

CHARLIE DAVIES

Jeffrey Marcus of the New York Times with a story on Davies injury, recovery and rehab. Some new details emerge.

-The NYT also the full Q & A with Davies.

Soccer America reports that Davies trained with Sochaux's senior squad for the first time yesterday!

And after practice he sent out this Twitter message: "I've resumed full training with my club!! It's about time & it feels great! My speed is getting there too! Today was a good day! God Bless"

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Semifinals Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Tue Apr 27

Lyon v Bayern (0-1) - live at 1:45pm Central on Fox Soccer Plus, and delayed at 4pm Central on FSC

-Wed Apr 28

Barcelona v Inter (1-3) - live at 1:45pm Central on FSC

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

Chicago Fire fans have been some of the league's most passionate since the day of the team's inception. Now they have taken things to a whole new level with their amazing organization as supporters teaming up with the club itself to form an official bond.

Supporters' Charter Signed - Fire and fans form groundbreaking agreement

"The Chicago Fire Soccer Club and Section 8 Chicago, the Independent Supporters’ Association for the Chicago Fire Soccer Club, jointly announced today that they have reached a groundbreaking agreement to institute the first-ever Chicago Fire Soccer Club Supporters’ Charter. The document serves to cement an ongoing, iterative dialogue between the Chicago Fire and its fans, and marks the first such organized effort in U.S. professional sports."

-You can read the full document here. This is quite impressive.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze with a good article on Chivas USA attacking midfielder Jesus Padilla.

-And a few more words on Padilla from Green's blog 100 Percent Soccer.

dN

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe gives us a few more words but no real new info on the status of Sharlie Joseph of New England - the team has granted him a leave of absence to deal with personal matter.

dN

Big Apple Soccer has a video interview with Red Bulls rookie centerback Tim Ream.

dN

Joshua Mayers of the Seattle Times with news and notes from Sounder Town.

dN

Stefan Bondi of the Record of North Jersey talks to the forgotten New York centerback Carlos Mendes.

dN

Kristian Jack of The Score in Canada, on his radio show, talks to former TFC head coach Chris Cummins who slings even more mud, dirt, rocks and throwing stars at GM Mo Johnston, who he feels is a terrible boss.

-Cummins claims that the locker room split we heard about at the end of last season was between American and Canadian players. Interesting.

-The National Post reports that Johnston may take legal action, but doesn't say against who.

MLS INJURY REPORT

Grahame Jones of the LA Times reports that David Beckman is most likely going to miss the entire Galaxy season. What about a roster replacement? A Designated Player spot?

MY THOUGHTS

Presenting the du Nord Top 3 MLS Players for the Month of April:

1. Edson Buddle - You can't argue with a guy who scores all of his teams goals, 7, and they go unbeaten.

2. Dwayne DeRosario - The shining jewel from a troubled group, and 5 goals to go with his leadership.

3. Marco Pappa - has stepped into the Blanco role to make this team go, and his consistency is very exciting.

MLS RUMORS

Is Los Angeles going to go get Ronaldinho or Raul this summer? Why not both?

-15 months ago I thought the league should have dropped the big bucks and bought both Ronaldinho and Thierry Henry from Barcelona.

MLS EXPANSION

Michael Lewis of the NY Daily News reports that the owners of the New York Mets baseball team are definitely still interested in owning a MLS team. Cool.

US OPEN CUP

MLS - Play-In Rounds:

We could see Chris Albright play for New York which would be his first game in over a year due to injury.

Bracket 1 (1 team will advance)

-Tue Apr 27

New York Red Bulls v Philadelphia Union

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

-Wed May 12

NYRB/PU Winner v New England Revolution

-Date TBA

NYRB/PU/NER Winner v Colorado Rapids

Bracket 2 (1 team will advance)

-Wed Apr 28

DC United v FC Dallas

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

-Date TBA

DCU/FCD winner v Real Salt Lake

dN

All the best Open Cup info can be found right here at The Cup.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Greg Seltzer of Soccer365 with lots of news and notes from around the world of soccer, mostly USA-centric.

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

The ESPN video feature on Clint Dempsey. Thanks to 723FootballFilms for the link.

dN

Yanks Abroad with a story on Alejandro Bedoya and his desire to making this World Cup team.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Danish newspaper Aarhus Diocese Journal feels Benny Feilhaber and one of his AGF teammates should be benched "unless they change attitude." Oof. The team is struggling, currently in 11th place of the 12 team league, which is a relegation place. They have played 29 of 33 games, with 2 other teams right there with them struggling for safety. Thanks to dedicated reader Henrik in Copenhagen for the info.

-Here is the link in Danish.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to Eric Lichaj about his big season on the field for 3 different teams in England. (He is under contract to Aston Villa and loaned out to Lincoln City and Leyton Orient.)

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - went the full 90 but 2-0 at Viking.

Hunter Freeman - Start - played the full 90 and scored the winner as they beat Honefoss 2-0 at home.

Clarence Goodson - Start - went the distance in a 2-0 home win over Honefoss.

Di Vita Jensen - Honefoss - came on as a sub in the 87th minute but they lost 2-0 at Start.

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

GREECE - Super League European Tournament Playoffs:

Freddy Adu

Eddie Johnson

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Apr 28

Aris Saloniki v Olympiakos

-Sun May 2

PAOK v Aris Saloniki

-Wed May 5

AEK Athens v Aris Saloniki

-Sun May 9

Aris Saloniki v AEK Athens

-Wed May 12

Olympiakos v Aris Saloniki

-Sun May 16

Aris Saloniki v PAOK

*This is a 4 team round robin home and away playoff by the #2-#5 teams in the league with the winner going to the Champions League (with the #1) and the runner up going to the Europa Cup (with the Greek Cup winner.)

-But this season Panathinaikos won the league and cup, so #3 also goes to the Europa League.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE - RUMORS

With no surprise the rumor mill in England says Hull will NOT sign Jozy Altidore, which means he is still the property of Villarreal. Where does he go now? Find out in July and August.

MEXICO

Here we go with the Clausura 2010 playoffs.

Matches & Scores - Quarterfinals:

1st Leg

-Sat May 1

Pachuca v Monterrey

Morelia v Guadalajara

-Sun May 2

Santos Laguna v UNAM

America v Toluca

2nd Leg

-Sat May 8

Monterrey v Pachuca

Guadalajara v Morelia

-Sun May 9

Toluca v America

UNAM v Santos Laguna

dN

Laguilla Bracket:

Monterrey v Pachuca

UNAM v Santos Laguna

- - - - -

Guadalajara v Morelia

Toluca v America

VOYAGEURS CUP - CANADIAN CHAMPIONSHIP

The 3 professional teams in Canada play each other home and away for the annual title.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Apr 28

Toronto FC v Montreal Impact

-Wed May 5

Vancouver Whitecaps v Montreal Impact

-Wed May 12

Montreal Impact v Toronto FC

-Wed May 19

Vancouver Whitecaps v Toronto FC

-Wed May 26

Montreal Impact v Vancouver Whitecaps

-Wed Jun 2

Toronto FC v Vancouver Whitecaps

The winner represents Canada in the CONCACAF Champions League.

ENGLAND

Jere Longman of the New York Times on England's long World Cup drought.

dN

James Lawton of The Independent on Wayne Rooney being named the English PFA Player of the Year.

EUROPE

Turns out this is a two legged match, so Ajax did not win it yet.

KNVB Beker/Dutch Cup - Final

1st Leg

-Sun Apr 24

Ajax Amsterdam 2-0 Feyenoord Rotterdam - AA goals both Siem de Jong.

2nd Leg

-Thu May 6

Feyenoord Rotterdam v Ajax Amsterdam

COPA LIBERTADORES

Matches & Scores - Round of 16:

1st Leg

-Tue Apr 27

Guadalajara v Velez Sarsfield

San Luis v Estudiantes de la Plata

-Wed Apr 28

Flamengo v Corinthians

Universitario Deportes v Sao Paulo

Banfield v Internacional

-Thu Apr 29

Alianza Lima v Universitario Chile

Once Caldas v Libertad

Cruzeiro v Nacional

dN

Here is the full Knockout Stage Bracket:

1 Corinthians v 16 Flamengo

8 Universitario Chile v 9 Alianza Lima

- - - - -

5 Libertad v 12 Once Caldas

4 Velez Sarsfield v 13 Guadalajara

- - - - -

3 Estudiantes de la Plata v 14 San Luis

6 Internacional v 11 Banfield

- - - - -

7 Nacional (Uruguay) v 10 Cruzeiro

2 Sao Paulo v 15 Universitario Deportes
