It's Day 312 of 2016.

4 days until USA v Mexico in Columbus - CONCACAF World Cup qualifying. 6:45pm CT on FS1.

Here it comes again. The every-four-years big one. By Sam Borden of the New York Times.

Flashback to 2013: More on the history of USA in Columbus. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

A deep Q + A with Mexico head coach Juan Carlos Osorio as the signifying game approaches. By Tom Marshall of ESPNFC.

Jurgen Klinsmann seems to have a real thing for very fast players. Nothing wrong with that. By Noah Davis of ESPNFC.

-But you better have the soccer skills too.

While Mapfre Stadium has been the host of 4 memorable and consecutive 2-0 USA wins over Mexico in World Cup qualifying, the Crew ownership is researching the idea of a new stadium. by Adam Jardy of the Columbus Dispatch.

After being named to the roster Jordan Morris was injured. He left the Seattle playoff game with a hamstring injury. Spent the 2nd half on the bench with ice wrapped around his leg.

Tim Howard has been named the starting goalkeeper.

USA Roster

G

Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough

Ethan Horvath - Molde

Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

William Yarbrough - Leon

D

Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City

Steve Birnbaum - DC United

John Brooks - Hertha Berlin

Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham

Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt

Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca

Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach

Michael Orozco - Tijuana

DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M

Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union

Michael Bradley - Toronto

Lynden Gooch - Sunderland

Julian Green - Bayern Munich

Jermaine Jones - Colorado Rapids

Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls

Christian Pulisic - Dortmund

Caleb Stanko - Vaduz

Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F

Jozy Altidore - Toronto

Aron Johannsson - Werder Bremen

Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

Bobby Wood - Hamburg

dN

MLS Playoffs - Quarterfinals 2nd Leg Results:

In a nutshell: Giovanni misses. Timmy saves. Jozy scores. A harbinger of USA v Mexico to come!

Colorado, Montreal, Toronto and Seattle are in.

LA, Red Bulls, NYC and Dallas are out.

Shkelzan Gashi, the guy I named the MLS newcomer of the year before the season even started, hit the goal of the day for Colorado. Goal of the year? [VIDEO]

Tim Howard stuffed the Galaxy in the Penalty Kick Shootout to achieve superhero status again.

Ignaccio Piatti led Montreal to a beatdown of the Red Bulls. Weaving magic spells along the way. [VIDEO]

Sacha Kljestan literally got beat up. And had his PK saved too. [VIDEO]

Giovinco, Altidore and Bradley smothered Villa, Pirlo and Lampard with a pillow in their sleep. [VIDEO]

Yesterday was Jozy Altidore's 27th birtday. He knows how to celebrate. [VIDEO]

Lodiero crashed Seattle to victory with a huge away goal. [VIDEO]

A full and excellent analytic breakdown of the 2nd Leg games. By Matt Doyle of MLSsoccer.

-Sun Nov 6

Colorado Rapids 1-0 LA Galaxy - series ends tied 1-1. CR advance 3-1 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

New York Red Bulls 1-2 Montreal Impact - MI advance 3-1 on aggregate.

New York City 0-5 Toronto - Tor advance 7-0 on aggregate.

Dallas 2-1 Seattle Sounders - SS advance 4-2 on aggregate.

Semifinals Schedule:

1st Leg

-Tue Nov 22

Montreal Impact v Toronto - 7:00pm CT on ESPN

Seattle Sounders v Colorado Rapids - 9:00pm CT on FS1

2nd Leg

-Sun Nov 27

Colorado Rapids v Seattle Sounders - 3:00pm CT on ESPN

-Wed Nov 30

Toronto v Montreal Impact - 6:00pm CT on FS1

dN

Four key people on the LA Galaxy will be out of contract come Jan 1: Bruce Arena, Landon Donovan, Steven Gerrard and Robbie Keane.

dN

Choose life. T2: Trainspotting 2

dN

I saw the Jim Jarmusch directed documentary film on The Stooges called Gimme Danger over the weekend. It was glorious. It was sad. It was not sugar coated. Go see it.

dN

Janet Reno Dance Party. RIP Ms. Reno.

dN

NASL Semifinals Results:

-Sat Nov 5

#2 Indy Eleven 1-0 #3 Edmonton - IE goal by Sinisa Ubiparipovic.

#1 New York Cosmos 2-1 #4 Rayo OKC - NYC goals by Juan Arango + Yohandry Orozco. ROKC goal by Futty Danso.

Final Schedule:

-Sun Nov 13

#1 New York Cosmos v #2 Indy Eleven - 6pm CT on CBS Sports Network

dN

Christian Ramirez of Minnesota United wins NASL Golden Boot with 18 goals.

50 goals in 3 NASL seasons. Superman

Matt VanOekel of Edmonton named NASL Golden Glove winner.

No surprise there.

dN

Things go from bad to worse for Minnesota United's Jeb Brovsky:

Hospitalized the last few days for blood clots in lung/leg post surgery. Scary/rare twist but all will make me stronger and more thankful.????

— Jeb Brovsky (@JebBrovsky) November 7, 2016

Keep him in your thoughts.

dN

Perspective from Jake Nutting of Empire Of Soccer:

Combined Red Bulls, NYCFC attendance TONIGHT: 52,669

Cosmos total 2016 regular season attendance: 60,403

dN

Big Ten Women's Soccer Final:

-Sun Nov 6

Minnesota 2-1 Rutgers or Northwestern

Their NCAA tournament opponents will be known shortly.

dN

The Bob Bradley + Swansea City Tracker:

Results - Sun Nov 6 L 1-3 v Manchester United

Standings - 19th Place, 6 Points into Relegation

Up Next - Sat Nov 19 at Everton

dN

Looks like the Swansea fans have turned the heat up to high on Bob Bradley. Not looking good right now. By Rory Smith of the New York Times.

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Results - Fri Nov 4 L 0-1 v Tigres UANL

Standings - 1st Place, 3 Point Lead

Already qualified for Liguilla.

Up Next - Fri Nov 18 at Veracruz - Final game of regular reason

dN

Top 8 teams in Mexico's Liga advance to playoffs.

1 Round left in the regular season

Tijuana (33), Pachuca (30), Tigres (30), Guadalajara (27) and America (27) have already advanced.

3 playoff spots left open:

25 Necaxa - NEXT: Sat Nov 19 at Guadalajara

24 Pumas UNAM - NEXT: Sun Nov 20 at Puebla

24 Toluca - NEXT: Sun Nov 20 v Santos Laguna

-----

23 Leon - NEXT: Sat Nov 19 at Cruz Azul

22 Monterrey - NEXT: Sat Nov 19 at Morelia

dN

If you had "Liverpool on top of the English Premier League standings at the November international break" go collect your winnings.

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
