It's Day 265 of 2016.

$360

The price of a 2017 Supporters Season Tickets for Minnesota United

Go here

Use the code: DARKCLOUDSFOLLOW

Put down your $40 deposit

Deal expires 9/23

NOTE: If you already made your deposit then you are all set. Nothing to see here. Your ticket rep will call you when tix go on sale at this price.

dN

This is such a great story. A kid with inoperable brain cancer got to see his favorite team Seattle Sounders, hang out with his favorite player Clint Dempsey, and meet the rest of the squad. Wonderful. From the Sounders. [VIDEO]

dN

Brutal. It looks like the Fort Lauderdale Strikers Brazilian owners are pulling out of funding the team, effective immediately. By Neil Morris of WRAL.

Bill Edwards, owner of Tampa Bay Rowdies, has shown his good side and has been loaning Fort Lauderdale money so they can continue paying some of their bills.

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

Standings - 9th place, 5 points out of 1st after 7 played

Up Next - Tue Sep 20 v Brest (1st place)

dN

Its a good day for American midfielder Perry Kitchen:

pic.twitter.com/Fpjc0URNpT

— Heart of Midlothian (@JamTarts) September 21, 2016

dN

Young American Lyden Gooch is getting a shot in the starting 11 at Sunderland early this season and he is not failing. By Chris Young of the Guardian.

dN

American Fabian Johnson scored a goal today for Monchengladbach as they tied 1-1 at Leipzig.

dN

In the wake of guys like Christian Pulisic being given such a huge chance to play at Dortmund the question gets asked more and more, are MLS teams doing their youth justice on the field? By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

The answer is no.

Another player getting rave reviews is 18 year old Cameron Carter-Vickers at Tottenham. (Article is about another player so you have to scroll down a ways for CCV mentions.) By David Hytner of the Guardian.

CCV made his Tottenham 1st team debut today in the League Cup. He played the full 90 and they won 5-0 over Gillingham.

Thanks to Brian Sciaretta for the heads up. Follow him for the very best on Yanks Abroad.

dN

The Chase for 6th Place!

Who is gonna grab the last spot in MLS Playoffs in each division:

EAST

38 Montreal - Next: at Red Bulls

36 New England - Next: at Columbus

-----

34 DC - Next: v Orlando

34 Orlando - Next: at DC

WEST

41 Portland - Next: at Houston

40 Kansas City - Next: at San Jose

-----

35 Seattle - Next: at LA

34 Vancouver - Next: v Colorado

34 San Jose - Next: v Kansas City

MLS goals leaders:

20 Bradley Wright-Phillips

17 David Villa

16 Sebastian Giovinco

15 Fanedo Adi

14 Giovani Dos Santos

14 Ignacio Piatti

14 Cyle Larin

14 Dom Dwyer

MLS assists leaders:

16 Sacha Kljestan

13 Sebastian Giovinco

11 Steven Gerrard

11 Mauro Diaz

11 Giovani Dos Santos

11 Joao Plata

10 Andrea Pirlo

dN

In the wake of Columbus Crew's horrible season everyone seems to have forgotten about their great young midfielder Wil Trapp. He continues to improve. By Paul Tenorio of Four Four Two.

dN

The 2017 MLS team logos ranked. By Fox Sports.

dN

UEFA announced the 12 cities that will host Euro 2020 games. I had to look one of them up cuz I had never heard of it and had no idea where it was: Baku.

Here are all the details on the host cities and qualifying.

dN

Real Madrid's perfect start to the season ended in Game 5 as they tied Villarreal 1-1 at home.

-And Hertha Berlin were beaten in Round 4 by Bayern to end their perfect start.

Perfect starts to the season in the Big Euro Leagues:

(how many games with no losses, no ties)

6 Feyenoord

5 Man City

4 Istanbul Basaksehir

4 Bayern Munich

The Bird Is The Word
