STARTERS

Jozy Jozy Jozy - playing his 3rd really good match in a row for Hull City he finally gets his first goal in the EPL. A fantastic goal too! See it here.

dN

Hercules Gomez went for the trifecta with Puebla this weekend: His first start, first goal and first yellow card. Alright!

WHO KNEW?

We read today in Soccer America that Sunil Gulati has won reelection as President of the US Soccer Federation. Who knew it was even up for a vote? Was he opposed? Hmmm.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES THIS WEEKEND

-Sat Feb 9

Liverpool 1-0 Everton - the Red side wins the Liverpool derby yet again, and this time the always ugly game saw the winners play down a man for 56 minutes.

-Sun Feb 10

Chelsea 2-0 Arsenal - #1 showed #3 how it's done! Dominating performance from Chelsea. Back to the drawing board for Arsenal.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

Our good friend in futbol Ives Galarcep has announced that he is taking his writing skills and website Soccer By Ives to Fox Soccer. His site will not change but it will be part of the Fox family. He will also be a feature columnist for Fox Soccer. We wish him all the best on the new adventure.

WHY?

Seattle gives us another MLS cliched-rippedoff-tired idea: The Community Shield! Come on. Can't you be more original than that. It's an exhibition game for charity against their long time bitter rival Portland Timbers. Extremely lame name for a good idea.

MLS NEWS

Glenn Davis of the Houston Chronicle reports on the importance of centerback Eddie Robinson to the Dynamo success in '10.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch with an article on Guillermo Barros Schelotto who feels he has unfinished business from the end of last season with the Crew.

-Schelotto is working on getting his Green Card.

dN

The always optimistic Nigel Reed of the CBC gives us 5 reason why Toronto FC will make the playoffs in 2010.

-He too seems to have forgotten about the hideous defense.

dN

Gareth Wheeler of the Toronto Sun looks at TFC's training camp in Florida.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer talks to Red Bulls gm Erik Soler about what his team needs most.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News and Michael Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune both report that Ian Joy is training with Real Salt Lake. But do they have room for him on their roster?

dN

The Daily Breeze on the retirement of Jesse Marsch from Chivas USA.

dN

Seattle star Freddie Ljunberg writing for ESPN Soccernet tells all about his offseason and getting back to work with the Sounders.

dN

Marc Narducci of the Philadelphia Inquirer checks out Union preseason in North Carolina - so much for warm weather.

dN

Narducci also reports on overall #1 pick for PU Danny Mwanga.

dN

The Philly Inquirer gives us a picture of a Union player. I know that one dude from Rancid is a fan of Real Salt Lake, but I had no idea another dude from Rancid was going to play for the Union.

MLS PRESEASON MATCHES & STUFF

Columbus beat the USA U17s 8-0 on Saturday.

dN

Center Line Soccer reports that San Jose will spend 10 days training in London at Tottenham. And other preseason schedule news.

MLS INJURY REPORT

Could the calf muscle strain that Dwayne DeRosaio have suffered at the Canada national team training camp last month really keep him out for another month of preseason? Does he need a preseason?

dN

Clint Mathis of the LA Galaxy suffered a torn meniscus in his left knee last week in training. He has had surgery and will be out about 6 weeks. That will put him back on the field just before the season opener.

MLS RUMORS

Big Apple Soccer reports that the Red Bulls are NOT trying to sign Ora Nikolov and Jonathan Fana Farias as other rumors have reported.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

Only 4 more days until the end of the extended agreement.

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to extend it until Feb 12. It has been stunningly quiet, but negotiations are rumored to be going well.

USSF DIVISION 2

The league has released their official game schedule today.

dN

And we have the details on how the post season playoffs will work.

-The first place team (based on total points, at the conclusion of the regular season) in the USL Conference and NASL Conference will become the top two seeds in the playoffs.

-The next six (6) best teams, based on total points, will round out the playoff field.

-The four teams with the fewest total points in the regular season are excluded from the playoffs.

-Playoffs will begin during the week starting Monday, October 4.

-Quarterfinals will be a two-game, home-and-away series determined by total aggregate goals.

-Semifinal round will be a two-game, home-and-away series determined by total aggregate goals.

-Championship will be a two-game, home-and-away series determined by total aggregate goals.

dN

The first US Open Cup dates for D2 teams will be Jun Tue 15 or Wed 16.

NSC MINNESOTA STARS

My team plays their first ever match on Sun Apr 11 at Vancouver.

And their first ever home match on Sat Apr 28 v Tampa Bay. Can one of you pray for a really late snow. Really late.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze tells us about the closing of the David Beckham Academy in Los Angeles just a few months after the closing of the same in London.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

With Carlos Bocanegra seemingly back in the first 11 Rennes had one of their biggest wins ever this weekend beating league leaders Bordeaux 4-2!

dN

Tim Howard, Landon Donovan and Everton had a disappointing day losing 1-0 at Liverpool while playing 56 minutes 11 v 10.

dN

Kenny Cooper made his Plymouth debut coming on as a sub in the 58th minute in a 0-1 home loss.

dN

The Birmingham Mail says that Brad Guzan can be blamed for the great form of Brad Friedel at Aston Villa this season.

dN

FIFA.com looks at the ever increasing number of American's playing outside our borders.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premiership

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - started and played 66 minutes, scoring his first goal as they won 2-1 at home over Manchster City.

Landon Donovan - Everton - played the whole 90 but lost 1-0 at Liverpool

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance as usual in a scoreless draw at Tottenham.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - went 90 but lost 2-1 at Birmingham.

Tim Howard - Everton - played the entire match but lost 1-0 at Liverpool.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played the whole match but lost 2-1 at Burnley.

ENGLAND - Championship

Kenny Cooper - Plymouth Argyle - came on as a sub in the 58th minute but they lost 0-1 at home against West Brom.

Jay DeMerit - Watford - played the full match but lost 1-0 at Barnsley.

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - went the full 90 but lost 2-1 at Nottingham Forest.

ENGLAND - League One

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - came on as a sub in the 77th minute but lost to his old team 2-1 at Millwall.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - played the whole game and knocked off league leaders Bordeaux 4-2 at home.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the distance but lost 1-0 at Mainz.

Greece -

Eddie Johnson - Aris Thessalonika - went the full 90 but lost 0-2 at home to Panthrakikos in a game that had the first half played on Saturday, then suspended due to an unplayable field (rain soaked), until Sunday when the second half was played. Wild.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the full 90 as they won at home 2-0 over Zwolle.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - Premiership

Stuart Holden - Bolton - Tue Feb 9 at Manchester City

ENGLAND - Championship

Kenny Cooper - Plymouth Argyle - Tue Feb 9 at Reading

Jay DeMerit - Watford - Tue Feb 9 v Bristol City

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - Tue Feb 9 v Blackpool

SCOTLAND - Premiership

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - Wed Feb 10 at Motherwell

Dominic Cervi - Celtic - Wed Feb 10 v Hearts

Maurice Edu - Rangers - Wed Feb 10 at Motherwell

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the full 90 but drew 2-2 at home with UNAM Pumas.

Herculez Gomez - Pueblo - started and played 61 minutes getting his first goal, and first yellow card, as they drew 1-1 at Atlante.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - played the entire match but lost 0-1 at home to Morelia.

AMERICANS IN ASIA

Greg Seltzer of Soccer365 talks to Jeremiah White who left Aarhus in Denmark for Al Ettifaq in Saudi Arabia.

ENGLAND

John Ashdown of the Guardian with Five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

-Here's a doozy - the bottom 8 teams in the EPL are really really bad:

#13 Sunderland - one win in 15

#14 Hull - one win in 11

#15 Burnley - one win in 13

#16 Wigan - one win in 9

#17 Bolton - one win in 7

#18 West Ham - one win in 10

#19 Wolverhampton - one win in 8

#20 Portsmouth - one win in 9

-Do NOT tell me these teams are better than MLS teams! Cuz they're not.

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (25 games played)

58 Chelsea - Last: Sun Feb 7 W 2-0 v Arsenal - Next: Wed Feb 10 at Everton

55 Manchester United - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 5-0 v Portsmouth - Next: Wed Feb 10 at Aston Villa

49 Arsenal - Last: Sun Feb 7 L 2-0 at Chelsea - Next: Wed Feb 10 v Liverpool

44 Liverpool - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 1-0 v Everton - Next: Wed Feb 10 at Arsenal

- - - - -

43 Tottenham - Last: Sat Feb 6 D 0-0 v Aston Villa - Next: Wed Feb 10 at Wolverhampton

- - - - -

41 Manchester City (23 games played) - Last: Sat Feb 6 L 2-1 at Hull City - Next: Tue Feb 9 v Bolton

41 Aston Villa - Last: Sat Feb 6 D 0-0 at Tottenham - Next: Wed Feb 10 v Manchester United

SPAIN

Phil Ball of ESPN Soccernet writes about habits, good and bad, and says Barcelona has the good kind. And the rest of the weekend in La Liga action.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on the surprising season for Ever Banega at Valencia, and the rest of the week in La Liga.

dN

COPA DEL REY

Semifinals

2nd Leg

-Tue Feb 9

Getafe v Sevilla (0-2)

Racing Santander v Atletico Madrid (0-4)

dN

Top La Liga Team Standings (21 games played)

55 Barcelona - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 2-1 Getafe

50 Real Madrid - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 3-0 v Espanyol

42 Valencia - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 2-0 v Valladolid

37 Mallorca - Last: Sun Feb 7 W 1-0 v Villarreal

- - - - -

36 Sevilla - Last: Sun Feb 7 L 2-1 at Zaragoza

35 Deportivo La Coruna - Last: Sun Feb 7 D 0-0 at Malaga

FRANCE

Top Ligue 1 Team Standings (23 games played)

48 Bordeaux - Last: Sat Feb 6 L 4-2 at Rennes

45 Montpellier - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 0-2 at Boulogne

41 Lille - Last: Sat Feb 6 D 1-1 at Nice

- - - - -

40 Lyon - Last: Sun Feb 7 D 0-0 at Toulouse

- - - - -

39 Marseille (22 games played) - Last: Sun Feb 7 W 5-1 v Valenciennes

39 Monaco - Last: Sun Feb 7 L 3-0 at St Etienne

39 Auxerre - Last: Sat Feb 6 L 5-0 at Grenoble

GERMANY

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian spends his time looking at the break down in contract negotiations with German national team coach Joachim Lowe, and then a few words about the weekend in the Bundesliga.

dN

Bayern Munich has fought to a tie on points with Leverkusen, but trail +29 to +27 on goal differential.

dN

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (20 games played)

45 Bayer Leverkusen - Last: Sat Feb 6 D 1-1 at Bochum

45 Bayern Munich - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 1-3 at Wolfsburg

42 Schalke - Last: Sat Feb 6 D 0-0 at Freiburg

- - - - -

36 Hamburg - Last: Sat Feb 6 D 3-3 at Koln

36 Dortmund - Last: Sun Feb 7 L 2-3 v Eintracht Frankfurt

ITALY

Paulo Bandini of the Guardian again shows Inter no respect by ignoring them completely, and the rest of the week in Serie A.

dN

Roma leaps the fraudulent quality of Milan into the #2 spot. And Juve falls to 7th. Oof

dN

Top Serie A Team Standings (23 games played)

52 Inter (22 games played) - Last: Sun Feb 7 W 3-0 v Cagliari - Next: Wed Feb 10 at Parma

44 Roma - Last: Sun Feb 7 W 0-1 at Fiorentina

42 Milan (22 games played) - Last: Sun Feb 7 D 0-0 at Bologna

38 Napoli - Last: Sun Feb 7 L 3-1 at Udinese

- - - - -

37 Palermo - Last: Sat Feb 6 W 2-1 v Parma

36 Sampdoria - Last: Sun Feb 7 W 1-2 at Siena

EUROPE

The draw for the Group Stage of Euro 2012 (click to englarge):

The first date of Group Stage games begins Fri Sep 3, 2010.

dN

FIFA.com does a Q & A with one of Portugal's key players - Simao.

BRAZIL

Robinho made a stunning return to Santos with a game winning goal against their big rivals Sao Paulo. And what a goal - a behind the leg flick (see the video)!

-The goalkeeping on this play, it should be noted, was terrible.

-Note to writers who described this shot as a "backheel" - It's not a backheel if you don't use your heel, and he didn't.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Jack Bell of the New York Times talks to Bundesliga big wigs who feel the MLS way of doing business is the future, not the English, Italian and Spanish way.

-And what has MLS been studying in the German ranks? Refereeing and youth academies. Nice.
