It's Day 29 of 2018.

In the history of "Pulling A Fast One" in MLS this is high quality:

NYCFC has Mix Diskerud on their books and no one out there will take his contract off their hands (he is on loan in Norway), so he is eating a chunk of their salary cap. Up steps big brother Manchester City and signs Mix. But they have no intention of keeping him. They will simply loan him out. His salary is minuscule for them and no one will notice it even happened.

Brilliant. If you can pull that move off you should.

dN

MLS officially announced that they are going to have a team in Miami.

They admitted that as recently as 60 days ago this plan was all but dead. And that wasn't the first time it almost fell apart.

Almost no other details were provided. No name, no logo, no colors. After 4 years of waiting you would think they could have done a little work on some of this shit.

And in a moving gesture Houston has retweed their own welcome message from 4 years ago!

Welcome back, Becks. https://t.co/leArFueDF8

— Houston Dynamo (@HoustonDynamo) January 29, 2018

dN

USMNT JANUARY CAMP

Minnesota's Christian Ramirez did not dressed for the game. A handful of other players did not dress either. A real disappointment for MNUFC fans who wanted to see Ramirez on the field. And believe me, there were time his skills were exactly what the team needed.

MY NOTES:

Great to be back at the Town Hall Brewery in Minneapolis watching with my friends in football. Excellent tournament for a Sunday night in January.

A dull affair, much like the coach Dave Sarachan prefers. Oof. I didn't expect more than that though.

Bosnia + Herzegovina was definitely the better team, and would have won had there been judges scorecards.

The USMNT had very few chances. They whiffed on most of them, and never forced the BH keepers into uncomfortable positions or make a tough save.

Both USMNT keepers Bill Hamid in the first half and Zack Stefan in the second made key saves to keep the game scoreless.

Jordan Morris was the most active American player on the field and created some chances.

Walker Zimmerman had the worst game of all the USMNTers. He couldn't seem to slow anyone down without fouling them. Even giving away a penalty in the 2nd half that luckily hit a post when it was taken.

Who else is worth mentioning? Ike Opara for key defense and Paul Arriola for some nifty passing.

Again, let me say this, Christian Ramirez would have made a difference had he been chosen to play.

Friendly Result:

-Sun Jan 28

USA 0-0 Bosnia + Herzegovina

Stub Hub Center - Carson CA

Match reports:

Brian Strauss for Sports Illustrated.

Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

Ridge Mahoney for Soccer America.

Roster:

G: Alex Bono - Toronto, Bill Hamid - Midtjylland, Cody Cropper - New England Revolution, Zack Steffen - Columbus Crew

D: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Nick Lima - San Jose Earthquakes, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Ike Opara - Sporting Kansas City, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps, Matt Polster - Chicago Fire, Brandon Vincent - Chicago Fire, Walker Zimmerman - Los Angeles

M: Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Paul Arriola - DC United, Russell Canouse - DC United, Marky Delgado - Toronto, Marlon Hairston - Colorado Rapids, Ian Harkes - DC United, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Wil Trapp - Columbus Crew, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Orlando City, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Christian Ramirez - Minnesota United, Rubio Rubin - no club, CJ Sapong - Philadelphia Union

Ramirez may be disappointed but he isn't letting any of us know that. Playing it cool:

Thankful to have been apart of the last couple weeks! Learned a lot and met some great people. Hope for many more. 🇺🇸🇺🇸Motivated and excited to get back to work w/ @MNUFC pic.twitter.com/iTHo9Gwn17

— Christian Ramirez (@Chris_Ramirez17) January 29, 2018

dN

LOS LOONS

The team is in Florida to train. It is raining.

No word from the team but pics from Florida. (Psst. They are not in Orlando like they said they were going to be. About 70 miles east in one of those horrific coastal Florida towns. Give me the willies thinking about it.)

Off Season Signings:

Harrison Heath

Tyrone Mears

Frantz Pangop

Mason Toye

Matt Lampson

Unsigned Draft Picks:

Wyatt Omsberg

Carter Manley

Xavier Gomez

Trying Out: (via Jeff Rueter)

Jiro Barriga Toyama

Kyle Ihn

dN

MLS

Orlando City has paid a whole bunch of GarberBucks to Columbus to acquire Justin Meram. Good move Orlando. Good windfall Columbus. Good Good = Win Win.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Danny Williams of Hudersfield got injured in the FA Cup. Don't know what or how bad yet.l But thats yet another American on the injury pile in Europe.

Three guys playing really well though - Timmy Chandler, Tim Ream and Kenny Saief. Here's a report (skip the bad stuff.) By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

dN

AFRICA

Scouting young talent in Africa. By Tariq Panja for the New York Times.

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S 5 TOP LEAGUES

3 losers among the big teams this weekend:

Valencia got blown out by Real Madrid and are now firmly irrelevant again.

Lyon lost dropping them 11 points behind the leaders.

Roma got beat at home.

Schedule/Results:

-Sat Jan 27

Bayern 5-2 Hoffenheim

Dortmund 2-2 Freiburg

Chievo 0-2 Juventus

Leipzig 1-1 Hamburg

PSG 4-0 Montpellier

Valencia 1-4 Real Madrid

Stuttgart 0-2 Schalke

-Sun Jan 28

Atletico Madrid 3-0 Las Palmas

Barcelona 2-1 Deportivo Alaves

SPAL 1-1 Inter

Bordeaux 3-1 Lyon

Marseille 2-2 Monaco

Milan 2-1 Lazio

Napoli 3-1 Bologna

Roma 0-1 Sampdoria

-Tue Jan 30

Swansea v Arsenal

Huddersfield v Liverpool

-Wed Jan 31

Chelsea v Bournemouth

Man City v West Brom

Tottenham v Man United

The Bird Is The Word
