It's Day 46 of 2017.

CONCACAF Champions League Quarterfinals begin next week on Tue Feb 21. Games to be broadcast in the USA on Univision Deportes.

dN

Philadelphia Union is looking to hire a Chief Tattoo Artist.

dN

Brad Davis will sign a 1 day contract with Houston Dynamo and then retire in the orange shirt. Nice move.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED PRESEASON

Josh Gatt is now officially a MNUFC player. Blazing fast right outside midfielder. Missed 3 full years (mid-2013 to mid-2016) due to knee injuries and surgeries. Lets hope he can stay healthy - a very rare thing to return from.

An interview with Gatt. By Richard Farley of Four Four Two.

The team has traded away the #1 spot in the MLS Allocation Order so Vancouver can acquire former Seattle forward Fredy Montero from Tianjin Teda. MU receives a bunch of money and an extra international roster spot.

Minnesota is now #4 in Allocation Order.

Head coach Adrian Heath talks about what he has seen so far in preseason. By Jeff Rueter of Fifty Five One.

Heath addressed the dearth at fullback: "We’re actively looking to bring in more players who can compete at those positions."

Matches + Results:

Portland Invitational

-Thu Feb 9

MNUFC 1-1 Vancouver Whitecaps - MU goal by VW Own Goal.

-Sun Feb 12

MNUFC 2-2 Portland Timbers - 7:00pm CT - MU goals both by Johan Venegas.

-Wed Feb 15

MNUFC v Real Salt Lake - 7:00pm CT - Webstream at mnufc.com

Goalkeeper John Alvbage is back in Sweden to finish his work Visa process, and will return as soon as that is completed. He will not play on Wed against Salt Lake.

Training camp roster (30):

G: John Alvbage, Marco Carducci (trialist), Patrick McLain

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (trialist), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Joe Greenspan, Alvin Jones (trialist), Brent Kallman, Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Thomas de Villardi (unsigned draft pick)

M: Bernardo Anor, Joshua Gatt, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Ismaila Jome, Bashkim Kadrii, Collin Martin, Kevin Molino, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson (unsigned draft pick), Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez, Johan Venegas

dN

Unaffiliated: du Nord Music Mix Vol 112 (download + extract)

dN

A player speaks out on how MLS and soccer in America are missing an essential part of developing American soccer players. By Jeb Brovsky of Howler.

How Mexico and Europe are constantly drawing young players away from America. By Jonathan Tannedwald of Philly.com.

dN

Doctors have given Clint Dempsey the all clear to play again. His heart issue is under control. Fantastic. By Matt Pentz of the New York Times.

Matt Pentz, who was laid off by the Seattle Times, is back and writing an article for the New York Times. I love it.

dN

The mission in Toronto is to do better than last year. A nearly impossible task. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

DC United's new stadium will be called Audi Field. They say it will open some time in 2018. Although they are still awaiting final city approval, which they are hoping happens on Thursday.

dN

MLS lists all of the USL affiliates for their teams. From MLSsoccer.com.

Minnesota is the only team in the league WITHOUT an affiliate.

These USL teams have no MLS partner:

Cincinnati

Louisville

Phoenix Rising

Sacramento Republic

Saint Louis

Tampa Bay Rowdies

dN

I am an American coach. By Bob Bradley for The Players Tribune.

dN

American Danny Williams played the whole match and scored for Reading yesterday as they won 3-2 v Brentford in the English 2nd division.

dN

A new USA uniform has been introduced. All red. Supposedly the socks (not pictured) are red as well:

??????#redtotoe pic.twitter.com/ilXiwMIprZ

— Christian Pulisic (@cpulisic_10) February 15, 2017

More details here, including the socks. By Footy Headlines.

These will be worn by the USMNT against Honduras on Mar 24.

dN

UEFA Champions League

American Christian Pulisic came on as a late sub for Dortmund and tried his hardest to tie the game, to no avail. They lost 1-0 at Benfica.

A review of yesterday's games via words, photos, audio + video: PSG v Barca - AND - Benfica v Dortmund. From UEFA.

Round of 16 Matches:

1st Leg

-Tue Feb 14

PSG 4-0 Barcelona

Benfica 1-0 Dortmund

-Wed Feb 15

Bayern 5-1 Arsenal

Real Madrid 3-1 Napoli

-Tue Feb 21

Leverkusen v Atletico

Man City v Monaco

-Wed Feb 22

Porto v Juventus

Sevilla v Leicester

dN

Football in Israel is always under a cloud in the Middle East, add to that a remote religious city to the formula and you get even more oddities - league champs Hapoel Beer Sheeva. Oh, and the team is owned by a woman. By Jame Montague.

The Bird Is The Word
