It's Day 226 of 2017.

18 days until the next USMNT World Cup Qualifier.

dN

And Las Vegas jumps into the USL pool! For 2018 no less. They will play at a baseball stadium - Cashman Field, home to AAA Mets, located north of downtown just off the strip.

Huge congrats to owner Brett Lashbrook a long time friend and supporter of du Nord Futbol.

dN

US Open Cup

Semifinals Schedule:

-Tue Aug 15

Cincinnati v New York Red Bulls

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Important injury update from MNUFC training today:

Also at #MNUFC training today, Marc Burch (sports hernia) participating more, while Christian Ramirez (hamstring) rehabbing on side.

— Andy Greder (@andygreder) August 14, 2017

Schedule:

-Sun Aug 20

Seattle v Minnesota - 8:30pm CT on FS1

dN

MLS

My MLS Notes:

Guess who is in first place in the West? Yeah, you got it. Houston. No? You didn't guess that? Me neither. Wow.

The top 4 teams in the Supporters Shield race are all in the East! And Toronto is 10 points up on best in the West.

The DCU-RSL game was delayed a day because of heavy rain causing a flooded field on Saturday. The game was played on Sunday to only about 1000 people. Ugh.

Every time I have felt dread coming for the Montreal coach they seem to turn it around.

The inverse is true for Vancouver - right when I think they are looking good, they flop. They have needed a new coach for 2 years.

Sean Johnson should be named Player Of The Week for his job shutting out LA at home. He won't be, cuz it will go to someone who got a couple goals. (For instance Justin Morrow for TFC.)

The red card for Kaka was a joke. He and former teammate Aurelien Collin where cleary goofing around when Kaka grabbed Collins head in a fake aggressive way. Then the ref, AFTER USING VAR, tossed Kaka. Watch it here. Yes it looks bad at first. Come on. Both players were laughing as the action happened. There was no ejectable(?) offense there!

Seattle, Toronto, NYRB, Houston + NYC keep establishing their superiority.

KC, Chicago and Dallas fell short in establishing theirs.

Clint Dempsey bagged his 50th goal for Seattle, and it was a game winner of course.

The week 23 review. By Matt Doyle for MLS.

The weeks best 11 things. By Alexander Abnos for Sports Illustrated.

Things haven't clicked for Sigi and the Galaxy yet. By Matt Pentz for the Guardian.

Is that the name of a new wave band from 1981?

Week 23 Schedule:

(10 games)

-Sat Aug 12

Seattle 1-0 Kansas City

Toronto 4-1 Portland

Columbus 3-1 Chicago

New York Red Bulls 3-1 Orlando

Dallas 0-0 Colorado

New England 1-0 Vancouver

Philadelphia 0-3 Montreal

Houston 3-0 San Jose

LA 0-2 New York City - 10pm CT on ESPN2

-Sun Aug 13

DC 0-1 Salt Lake - game delayed 1 day after heavy rains had flooded the field.

24 goals in 10 games = 2.4 gpg.

dN

USMNT

One of the most important developments for any national team pool player abroad is that Ethan Horvath has become the #1 goalkeeper at Club Brugge. While they are not a big club in a big league he has gone from backup to starter with each consecutive climb up the European ladder - a very good sign.

Injured across the back line are getting worrisome for the USMNT - Yedlin, Brooks, Gonzalez all dinged up. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

Tim Chandler got the game winner for Eintract Frankfurt in the Pokal. They beat Erndtebruck 0-3.

While Bobby Wood did score for Hamburger in the DFB Pokal (German Cup,) his team was beaten by 3rd div club Osnabruck, which is coached by American Joe Enochs.

dN

Premier League: Ten talking points from the open weekend's action. From the Guardian.

dN

The Australian Football Federation is a mess and FIFA is on the brink of stepping in. By Jonathan Howcraft for the Guardian.

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
