It's Day 124 of 2016.

Leicester City Football Club winning the English championship - with only 3 losses this season and 5000-1 underdogs before the season - is the most amazing story in sports history.

Says it all:

Leicester City. Champions of England. pic.twitter.com/WRwfysTn2N

— Leicester City (@LCFC) May 2, 2016

The moment it happened with the Leicester players:

CHAMPIONS!!!! pic.twitter.com/pFtvo5XUNx

— Christian Fuchs (@FuchsOfficial) May 2, 2016

England's first NEW champion since 1978:

Leicester 1st new champion of England since 1978. That one, Nott Forest, won European Cup each of the next 2 years. pic.twitter.com/mm15VtX6Kn

— Brian Straus (@BrianStraus) May 3, 2016

dN

A NFL player takes direct aim at all the everyday language and attitudes us men use as sexual power to dominate and demean women. He is so right, this shit has to stop. By Deandre Levy of the Detroit Lions at the Players Tribune.

dN

UEFA Champions League Semifinals:

Atletico Madrid knocks out Pep's Bayern and books their spot in the Final!

Somehow BOTH teams had a Penalty Kick saved.

-Tue May 3

Bayern Munchen 2-1 Atletico Madrid - series ended tied 2-2 and Atleti advances due to the away goals tie breaker.

-Wed May 4

Real Madrid v Manchester City (0-0) - 1:30pm CT on FS1.

dN

The story of young American Christian Pulisic at Borussia Dortmund. By Stefan Bienkowski of the Washington Post.

dN

NASL Player Of The Month vote for April. My vote went to Austin Da Luz of Carolina RailHawks.

As much as I want to vote for Christian Ramirez (who I have said is the best player in the league right now) and Sammy Ndjock, I had to give it to Da Luz who has lead his team to a shocking 1st place in April.

dN

NASL Week 6 Matches:

-Wed May 4

Jacksonville v Edmonton

dN

Its a Cascadia sweep of this weeks awards:

Ben McKendry of Vancouver Whitecaps 2 was named USL Player Of The Week.

Kim Little of Seattle Reign was named NWSL Player Of The Week. For the 2nd week in a row. Again, not Lil Kim.

Jake Gleeson of Portland Timbers was named MLS Player Of The Week.

dN

Kevin Doyle of Colorado suffered a gruesome gash on his leg (I will let you find those pictures on your own) while playing for Ireland a few weeks ago. He tells the story of the great treatment he received. By John Meyer of the Denver Post. Thanks to Ken for the link.

dN

I was just having a conversation with a co-worker about this concept this morning:

LA Galaxy are developing the education platform for their academy teams to grow players beyond the soccer field. By Kevin Baxter of the LA Times.

One thing the article gets wrong - LA's academy is not the "envy" of all the other MLS team, that honor goes to Dallas.

The Bird Is The Word
