USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Some of the top American pundits give their thoughts on the USA pre-roster:

-Jere Longman of the New York Times

-Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated (includes video of Grant Wahl commenting as well)

-Paul Kennedy of Soccer America

-Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe

-Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer

dN

Did Eddie Johnson jack up his hamstring in Greece today? The rumor mill is buzzing.

dN

Martin Rogers of Yahoo with an article on Freddy Adu. What has happened to him, and where is he headed?

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Atletico Madrid win the Final. Huge congrats go out to them!

-Wed May 12

Fulham 1-2 Atletico Madrid - Ful goal by Simon Davies. AM goals both by Diego Forlan.

The game ended tied 1-1 after 90 minutes, but Atletico scored the winner late in the Added Extra Time.

STORY OF THE DAY

Reuters with an article reporting that Spain's Primera Division is considering splitting off from the rest of that countries football much like England's Premier League did nearly 20 years ago.

dN

It's interesting that this come up today after the great opinion piece we had here on du Nord last weekend saying that the big money grab of the Premier and Champions League have taken away some of the best glory in football

TWITTERVERSE

CharlieDavies9 shares his disappointment in 2 Twitter messages:

"Congrats to the guys who have made the WC Squad. I wish them nothing but the best! They have my full support!!! I'm rooting them on!!!!"

-and-

"It was a very sad day for me as well but now focused for next season!"

MLS WEEK 8

The week gets going on Thurday night in Salt Lake City

-Thu May 13

Real Salt Lake v Houston Dynamo - 8pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Joshua Mayers of the Seattle Times has a transcript of a media Q & A session with new Sounders signing Blaise Nkufo who will join the team when the summer transfer window opens.

-Sounders coach and players comment on Nkufo.

dN

Kansas City president Robb Heinemann is at it again, this time hopping on Big Soccer asking fans who the team should sign as a designated player. I love this guy. He had announced on Twitter that Man U was coming to KC several days before that info was formally released to the press. Talking to the fans directly. What a concept. Here is his exact post on Big Soccer:

RobbHeineman - Question 5: The Designated Player We Sign This Summer - So, I know you've got an opinion on this one...... Full Disclosure - we are trying, not going to reach, and in a perfect world get a 3-year player, minimum.....might not be possible.

-Charles Gooch of the Kansas City Star led us to that post and has the full story.

dN

Marc Narducci of the Philadelphia Inquirer reports on a private friendly that the Union played against the Ecuador national team yesterday. The game ended 1-1 with young Roger Torres scoring for PU.

dN

Justin Rodriguez of Soccernet with an article on the fitness regimen that has raised the game of Houston midfielder Brad Davis considerably.

-I agree, I think Davis has been fantastic so far this season.

dN

The News and Sentinel of Parkersburg WV with an article on their native son Zak Boggs who had quite the game last Saturday for New England scoring not 1 but 2 goals.

dN

Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365 talks to Bobby Convey of San Jose who after 2 brutal seasons in a row is finally coming back to the top of his game.

MLS EXPANSION

Here is a guy who clearly is not paying attention in class.

-Orrin Schwarz of Chicago's Daily Herald tells MLS that maybe they should look into having a team in St Louis. Wow! What a brilliant idea! How come no one thought of that before? Oh, wait.... they have been for years now, and Jeff Cooper couldn't get enough investors in St Louis to make it happen. How does this guy get a job covering MLS when he is paying so little attention.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

Bolton Wanderers of England come to Canada.

Newly added:

-Wed Jul 21

Toronto FC v Bolton (England)

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

US OPEN CUP

MLS - Play-In Rounds:

Matches & Scores:

-Wed May 12

New York Red Bulls v New England Revolution

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

-Date TBA

NYRB/NER Winner v Colorado Rapids

dN

All the best Open Cup info can be found right here at The Cup.

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

The Original Winger does a Q & A with David Downs, the Executive Director of the USA World Cup bid committee.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

UEFA - Europa League Final

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Wed May 12 - came on as a sub in the 55th minute but they lost 2-1 to Atletico Madrid.

GREECE - Super League European Tournament Playoffs:

Freddy Adu - Wed May 12 - D 1-1 v AEK Athens - Round 4 of 6

Eddie Johnson - Wed May 12 - D 1-1 v AEK Athens - Round 4 of 6

CONCACAF

El Salvador has been banned from all competitions by FIFA after that countries government got involved in new federation elections. The country has until June 8 to resolve the issue or they could be suspended for a year.

dN

CONCACAF International Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Thu May 13

Mexico v Angola - in Houston

MEXICO

Clausura 2010 playoffs:

Matches & Scores - Semifinals:

1st Leg

-Wed May 12

Morelia v Santos Laguna

Pachuca v Toluca

2nd Leg

-Sat May 15

Santos Laguna v Morelia

Toluca v Pachua

VOYAGEURS CUP - CANADIAN CHAMPIONSHIP

The 3 professional teams in Canada play each other home and away for the annual title.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Apr 28

Toronto 2-0 Montreal

-May 5

Vancouver Whitecaps 1-1 Montreal Impact

-May 12

Montreal Impact v Toronto FC

-May 19

Vancouver Whitecaps v Toronto FC

-May 26

Montreal Impact v Vancouver Whitecaps

-Jun 2

Toronto FC v Vancouver Whitecaps

dN

STANDINGS (4 rounds total):

3 Toronto (1 played)

1 Montreal (2 played)

1 Vancouver (1 played)

ENGLAND

Four Championship division teams playoff for the one last promotion spot to the Premier League:

Semifinal Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Tue May 11

Nottingham Forest 3-4 Blackpool - Bla advance 6-4 on aggregate.

-Wed May 12

Cardiff City 2-3 Leicester City - series ends tied 3-3 - CC advance 4-3 on Penalty Kick Shootout

So now Cardiff City will face off against Blackpool for the big money and the beatings in the Premiership next season.

FRANCE

Ligue 1 has named Lyon forward Lisandro Lopez as their Player Of The Year.

EUROPE

Gabriele Marcotti of the Wall Street Journal looks at the success fresh managers had this season across the top Euro leagues.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Matches & Scores - Quarterfinals:

1st Leg

-Tue May 11

Guadalajara 3-0 Libertad - Gua goals by Omar Bravo(2) & Ricardo Gallien.

-Wed May 12

Cruzeiro v Sao Paulo

Flamengo v Universidad de Chile

-Thu May 13

Internacional v Estudiantes de la Plata

2nd Leg

-Tue May 18

Libertad v Guadalajara (0-3)

-Wed May 19

Sao Paulo v Cruzeiro (-)

-Thu May 20

Universidad de Chile v Flamengo (-)

Estudiantes de la Plata v Internacional (-)

WORLD CUP 2010 - SOUTH AFRICA

Tim Vickery of the BBC reviews the World Cup roster of Brazil (focused) and Argentina (muddled).

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune looks at the difficulty of choosing a national team for one tournament.

dN

Last summer Karim Benzema was sold by Lyon to Real Madrid for a tooooooooon of money. This summer he will be sitting at home watching the World Cup on TV just like the rest of us schleps cuz France did not name him to their roster.

dN

Argentina has left 2 of their best and most experienced players off their roster: Javier Zanetti and Estaban Cambiaso. How could they make sure a huge error?

Argentina's roster of 30:

G:

Mariano Andujar - Catania

Diego Pozo - Colon

Sergio Romero - AZ Alkmaar

D:

Nicolas Burdisso - Roma

Fabricio Coloccini - Newcastle

Ariel Garce - Colon

Martin Demichelis - Bayern Munich

Gabriel Heinze - Marseille

Juan Manuel Insaurralde - Newell’s Old Boys

Nicolas Otamendi - Velez Sarsfield

Clemente Rodriguez - Estudiantes de la Plata

Walter Samuel - Inter

M:

Sebastian Blanco - Lanus

Mario Bolatti - Fiorentina

Jesus Datolo - Olympiacos

Angel Di Maria - Benfica

Jonas Gutierrez - Newcastle

Javier Mascherano - Liverpool

Juan Mercier - Argentinos Juniors

Javier Pastore - Palermo

Maxi Rodriguez - Liverpool

Jose Sosa - Estudiantes de la Plata

Juan Sebastian Veron - Estudiantes de la Plata

F:

Sergio Aguero - Atletico Madrid

Gonzalo Higuain - Real Madrid

Ezequiel Lavezzi - Napoli

Lionel Messi - Barcelona

Diego Milito - Inter

Martin Palermo - Boca Juniors

Carlos Tevez - Manchester City

TACTICS

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tries to unravel the myths or facts of the importance of the possession game.
