REMINDER: BRUCE IN ENGLAND

Any chance that anyone out there reading this will be at the Southampton v Walsall game on Sat Feb 27? I will be, and would love to meet any readers also in attendance! Just drop me an email.

I will also be spending the majority of next week in London on business. And who knows, we may run into each other. I always love my trips to the Old Smoke, hopefully this one will be no different.

In my little bit of free time I hope to hit some record stores (Peckings, Dub Vendor, Honest Jon's etc.) and see some modern art (Tate Modern of course). Those are two of my fave things about that great city. Oh, and I can't forget about the La Hore Kebab House just off Commercial Road in the Whitechapel area of East London.

And yes, that means guest hosts all week long. Enjoy them. I am sure you will.

Graham Fox will be back later today with a very exciting update for you!

STARTERS

Herculez! Herculez! Herculez Gomez! He has scored his 3rd goal for Puebla since his move to Mexico in January. Fantastic for him! Sadly they lost 3-2 at home to Guadalajara. The other interesting thing for Gomez is that he has taken Carlos Ruiz's spot in the first 11.

dN

Another huge weekend at Everton for Landon Donovan and Time Howard as they knocked off #2 Manchester United only a few days after knocking off #1 Chelsea. 3-1 was the final score for the red hot blue team from Liverpool.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to originally extend it until Feb 12, and now a further 13 days to Feb 25. Negotiations are said to be going well.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America talks to a MLS Players rep, midfielder Chris Klein of the Los Angeles Galaxy, who is NOT saying good things about the negotiations on the new agreement with MLS.

MLS NEWS

Potential future USA star midfielder Luis Gil has signed with MLS will find his new team out on Monday via a lottery.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Much like Mexico has done, Argentina will try to take advantage of the huge commercial prospects in America. The national team has done a deal with Cardenas Marketing to begin promoting friendly matches in our country. They will play their first match under this agreement sometime later in 2010, after the World Cup. Interesting.

TEAM USA

Official Team Blog

-Interview with Robbie Rogers

-Q & A with Chris Pontius

The USA team is now in Tampa preparing for Wednesday's game.

dN

Friendly Match & Score:

USA v El Salvador - 6pm Central on ESPN Classic

Venue: Raymond James Stadium - Tampa FL

NOTE: The USA U17 team will play the El Salvador U17 game that same day prior to the senior squads meeting.

dN

Here is the USA roster for that game.

G:

Troy Perkins - DC United

Nick Rimando - Real Salt Lake

D:

Jonathan Bornstein - Chivas USA

Clarence Goodson - Start

Chad Marshall - Columbus Crew

Heath Pearce - FC Dallas

Marvell Wynne - Toronto FC

M:

Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake

Geoff Cameron - Houston Dynamo

Brad Davis - Houston Dynamo

Brad Evans - Seattle Sounders

Eddie Gaven - Columbus Crew

Sacha Kljestan - Chivas USA

Dax McCarty - FC Dallas

Chris Pontius - DC United

Robbie Rogers - Columbus Crew

F:

Conor Casey - Colorado Rapids

Brian Ching - Houston Dynamo

Jeff Cunningham - FC Dallas

Robbie Findley - Real Salt Lake

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premier League

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - came on as a sub in the 65th minute but they lost 3-0 at West Ham.

Landon Donovan - Everton - played the entire match as they beat Manchester United 3-1 at home.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - played full 90 as they won 5-2 at home over Burnley.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - played the whole match but lost 0-2 at home to Chelsea.

Tim Howard - Everton - played the whole match as usual and they beat Manchester United 3-1 at home.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - went the distance as they won 3-0 at home over Hull.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Kenny Cooper - Plymouth Argyle - came on as a sub in the 76th minute as they tied Leicester City 1-1 at home.

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the full 90 getting a Yellow Card as they drew 2-2 at Scunthorpe United.

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - played the whole game but lost 0-1 at Ipswich Town.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Stockport County - started and went 87 minutes, scoring a huge goal as the last place team won 0-1 at Exeter. But they are 13 points from safety.

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - came on as a sub in the 88th minute as they drew 1-1 at home against Millwall.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - started but was pulled at half time as they lost 1-2 at home to Lille.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the distance as they traveled to Hoffenheim and came away with a 2-2 draw.

Greece - Super League

Eddie Johnson - Aris Thessalonika - played the entire match but they lost 1-0 at AEK Athens.

Freddy Adu - Aris Thessalonika - started but was subbed out at half time as they lost at AEK Athens 1-0.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the whole match, scored the first goal and they won 3-0 at home over RBC Roosendaal.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the distance as they traveled to America and got a 2-2 tie.

Herculez Gomez - Pueblo - started and played 73 minutes, scored another goal but lost 3-2 at Guadalajara.

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - went the full 90 as they drew 2-2 at Chiapas.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - went the distance as they drew 0-0 at home with Cruz Azul.

CONCACAF

International Friendly Match & Score:

-Wed Feb 24

Mexico v Bolivia - in San Francisco CA

ENGLAND

FA CUP

Replays of tied Round of 16 games:

-Wed Feb 24

Aston Villa v Crystal Palace

Stoke City v Manchester City

West Brom v Reading

Tottenham v Bolton

Advanced: Chelsea, Portsmouth, Birmingham and Fulham.
