Día de Muertos

Huge congrats to the Kansas City Royals and their fans for the World Series win!

And huge congrats to New Zealand for winning the Rugby World Cup!

MLS Cup Playoffs

@dunord @AlexiLalas Didier Drogba likes One Leg pic.twitter.com/zZpLyLT5jS

— Joe Miller (@xjoeymillerx) November 2, 2015

Quarterfinals - 1st Leg

Sun Nov 1

DC United 1-0 New York Red Bulls - 2pm CT on ESPN

Portland Timbers 0-0 Vancouver Whitecaps - 4pm CT on ESPN + TSN

Montreal Impact 2-1 Columbus Crew - 6pm CT on FS1 + TSN

Seattle Sounders 2-1 Dallas - 8:30pm CT on FS1 + TSN

The Heroes:

-Dax McCarty of New York stuck his head in to fearlessly score off a set piece.

-Vancouver goalkeeper David Ousted made a couple of huge saves to keep the clean sheet on the road.

-Dallas + Montreal made life miserable for Seattle + Columbus. Neither team gave up an inch anywhere on the field. Buzzing buzzing buzzing everywhere.

-Fabian Castillo of Dallas can make you look silly with his speed and ball skills and he did just that to the Seattle defense to open the scoring.

-Clint Dempsey of Seattle scored a gorgeous free kick goal to win the game for the home team.

-Big big big road goals by Columbus + Dallas - road goals are the tie breaker in 2 Leg series.

The Villains:

-Kei Kamara + Ethan Finley were invisible for Columbus. This team will be out if these two don't show up in the 2nd Leg. Kamara also let Patrice Bernier run right past him to head home a corner kick.

-Michael Parkhurst of Columbus had a terrible giveaway that allowed Johan Venegas to stroll in on Steve Clark and score to win the game.

-Didier Drogba of Montreal loves playing this role: diving, flailing, faking, whining and then DOMINATING opponents! He had Columbus in a lather! He also perfectly set up Federico Higuain for the Columbus goal with a terrible clearance in front of his own net.

-Portland + Vancouver: [ESPN Sports Center] "Ok, we now go to the highlights of Portland v Vancouver ... oh, wait, I'm bring told by the producer that there were no highlights. Sorry about that, so we move on to Division III college football..." I have no issues with a scoreless draw as long as the two teams show up to play. These two played to not make mistakes. Safety first is not attractive. And what makes it worse is this was supposed to be one of those bitter Cascadia Cup derby matches.

-The young players of Dallas kinda wilted under the pressure late.

2nd Leg Schedule

Sun Nov 8

New York Red Bulls v DC United – 2pm CT on ESPN

Columbus Crew v Montreal Impact – 4pm CT on ESPN, TSN1 + RDS1

Dallas v Seattle Sounders – 6:30pm CT on FS1 + TSN

Vancouver Whitecaps v Portland Timbers – 9pm CT on FS1, TSN1 + RDS1

Semifinals - Sun Nov 22 + Sun Nov 29

Final - Sun Dec 6

dN

A big du Nord Futbol THANK YOU to Eddie Johnson who has sadly announced his retirement. The Grown Ass Man gave us some great memories on the field and off.

dN

Our main (Bat)man Miguel Ibarra scored an awesome goal for Leon in a 2-1 in over Atlas that clinched a playoff berth. Check the video (begins at 0:07.) It was Ibarra's 1st Liga MX goal after nabbing a couple in league cup games.

dN

Bob Bradley and his Stabaek are tied for 2nd with Stromsgodset on points, but trailing by 7 in goal differential as the Norwegian season heads into its final round of the season.

-Not only that but they qualified for Europa League next season, which is kinda insane for a team with such a small budget!

-This is more than likely his last game in charge of the Blue Ones before heading to the Le Harve in Ligue 2.

dN

Fabian Johnson and his Monchengladbach team have won 6 in a row in the Bundesliga. He set up the first goal in a 1-4 win at Hertha.

-John Brooks is still stuck on the bench in Berlin.

dN

New York Times Magazine with a feature on one of my favorite authors, the harsh and harrowing yet beautiful Mary Gaitskill.

dN

Rare video footage of one of the world's most infamous rock n roll band The Shaggs. From 1972. Thanks to Wes Burdine and Dangerous Minds for the link.

dN

NASL

The regular season is now over.

With an Ottawa tie and a New York win the top 2 seeds switched spots on the last night of the season and New York Cosmos claimed that precious #1 ranking.

-Tampa also stumbled, losing to the Cosmos, so with a Fort Lauderdale win on Sunday the Strikers stole the final playoff position from the Rowdies.

Minnesota 2-2 San Antonio

Minnesota didn't want to get hurt or suspended so they played a pretty boring game.

-Minnesota scored on a PK by Pablo Campos and a great flying stab from Kevin Venegas.

-After the game San Antonio fired head coach Alen Marcina. (At the airport baggage claim no less.) Marcina played 1 season for the Minnesota Thunder.

For Minnesota United now its time to shine!

The team has to build their own momentum heading to Ottawa. In the month of October the team has 10 points from 5 games, which is decent, but haven't strung together a lot of great halves of soccer. Here we go!

Semifinal match schedule:

Sat Nov 7

New York Cosmos v Fort Lauderdale Strikers - 1 pm CT

Sun Nov 8

Ottawa Fury v Minnesota United - 2 pm CT

-both games can be seen on ESPN3.com and the Watch ESPN app.

dN

Dark Clouds End of the Year Charity Auction and Awards Ceremony! November 16th!

-Everyone is welcome. Not just Dark Clouds members.

dN

The weekends Bundelisa Talking Points. from Deutshe Welle.

-Eintracht played with 6 defenders against Bayern and spoiled the leaders perfect season with a 0-0 draw.

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

-Including Costa Rican Joel Campbell finally making his presence known at Arsenal.

dN

USA + CONCACAF World Cup qualifying is right around the corner. Get prepared.

-Fri Nov 13

USA v St Vincent + The Grenadines - 5:30pm CT in St Louis

-Tue Nov 17

Trinidad + Tobago v USA - details still TBA

The Bird Is The Word
