STARTERS

Milan won Serie A. Congrats to them.

dN

8th seeded Chivas has knocked out #1 seed Tigres out of the Mexican playoffs!

dN

Where oh where has Oguchi gone? Onyewu has not been playing at all lately for his club Twente, and did not even dress as they won the Netherlands KNVB Beker aka League Cup. What is the story??

Oh yeah! The first Seattle v Portland MLS game is next Saturday night!

STORY OF THE DAY

US Soccer does a Q & A with Edson Buddle on his first season in the German 2nd division.

-They were in last place when he and others were brought in in January, and this past weekend they officially kept themselves from being relegated.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 7

Roma 0-0 Milan - Milan's draw was enough to give them the Serie A Scudetto.

-Sun May 8

Manchester United 2-1 Chelsea - like Milan, Man U did not with the title but its basically a given now.

Lyon 3-2 Marseille - #3 pulled within three points of #2 who fell four points off the pace.

Barcelona 2-0 Espanyol - the Barcelona city derby goes to the obvious.

Udinese 2-1 Lazio - the win moves Udi up to #4, but drops Lazio to #6.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

why did the supposed great advertisement for MLS, LA v NY, kick off at 11pm Eastern? Anyone?

We are gonna get the same thing next weekend with Seattle v Portland kicking off at 11 Eastern

FACT OF THE DAY

Maxi Rodriguez bagged his 2nd hattrick in just a few weeks for Liverpool today. Amazing for a guy who many said was way too slow for the Premier League. I guess he just needed the right coach.

VIDEO OF THE DAY

Freddy Adu bagged another goal in the Turkish 2nd division. It was a very flashy powerheader too! See it here.

NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!! (READ IN SLOW MOTION)

I just can't believe that MLS lost another great playmaker to a gruesome broken leg. Two weeks in a row we lost one of the greats. Not to forget the rising star that was lost to a vicious tackle last week too.

Javier Morales the engine of Salt Lake City's Real team was taken out in a horrible tackle by Chivas forward Marcos Mondaini on Saturday. Two broken bones, a dislocated ankle and torn ligaments. WTF. That is way too serious for anyone to take. Luckily you can't see too much of it here, cuz its awful.

The gravity of Morales and Ferreira going on is the equivilant of the league losing Marco Etcheverry and Mauricio Cienfuego a week apart in the early part of the 1999 season. Unspeakable.

MLS MATCHES, SCORES & STANDINGS

Week 8

Recap du Nord:

Matches & Scores:

-Fri May 6

Portland Timbers 1-0 Philadelphia Union - PT goal by Futty.

Venue: JELD-WEN Field - Portland OR

Attendance: 18627

-Sat May 7

Real Salt Lake 1-0 CD Chivas USA - RSL goal by Will Johnson.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 14365

Toronto FC 2-1 Houston Dynamo - TFC goals by Joao Plata & Maicon Santos. HD goal by Lovel Palmer.

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Attendance: 20259

DC United 0-0 FC Dallas

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

Attendance: 11504

Columbus Crew 1-1 Seattle Sounders FC - CC goal by Emilio Renteria(PK). SS goal by Fredy Montero.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 7148

New England Revolution 0-0 Colorado Rapids

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Attendance: 11755

Chicago Fire SC 0-0 Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 11680

LA Galaxy 1-1 New York Red Bulls - NYRB goal by Thierry Henry. LAG goal by Landon Donovan.

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 27000

dN

The two worst teams in the league San Jose and Kansas City were off this weekend. Just think, if they played each other maybe we could have had another scoreless tie.

dN

EJECTIONS:

Andrew Boyens - Chivas - 2 yellow cards

Marcos Mondaini - Chivas - red card

dN

No teams moved up or down the standings this week.

Standings:

EASTERN CONFERENCE

15 New York Red Bulls (+8 GD) (8 GP)

13 Philadelphia Union (+2 GD) (7 GP)

13 Columbus Crew (+2 GD) (8 GP)

12 Houston Dynamo (+3 GD) (9 GP)

11 DC United (-5 GD) (9 GP)

10 New England Revolution (-4 GD) (9 GP)

10 Toronto FC (-5 GD) (9 GP)

7 Chicago Fire SC (-3 GD) (8 GP)

4 Sporting Kansas City (-3 GD) (6 GP)

Salt Lake moved up 1 spot and Portland moved up 2 - Colorado, Seattle and Dallas dropped.

WESTERN CONFERENCE

16 LA Galaxy (+2 GD) (9 GP)

15 Real Salt Lake (+7 GD) (6 GP)

14 Colorado Rapids (+2 GD) (9 GP)

13 Portland Timbers (-2 GD) (8 GP)

13 Seattle Sounders FC (+2 GD) (10 GP)

11 FC Dallas (0 GD) (8 GP)

9 CD Chivas USA (+1 GD) (8 GP)

7 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (-3 GD) (9 GP)

5 San Jose Earthquakes (-4 GD) (7 GP)

DU NORD PLAYER OF THE WEEK AND OTHER STUFF

The player this week is that little sprout of a man in Toronto who goes by the name of Joao Plata. He bamboozled the Houston defense in his first ever MLS start. Wow. He has a lot of strength for someone so small in stature. He not only converted a PK for goal #1 but he perfectly executed a counter attack feed to Maicon Santos for the game winner. And winning does help to win awards.

MY THOUGHTS

3 sellouts - Portland, Toronto and LA. And 5 choking dogs, especially in Columbus. Gak.

And there were only 9 total goals scored in those 8 games. Double gak. Hell, triple gak.

The Farfan Bros. got the start at opposite fullbacks for Philly. They did a very good job too.

The atmosphere created by the Portland fans was terrifically captured by the Fox Soccer microphones. They were POWERFUL.

Portland also got their 2nd shut out in a row. Did you have that in your office pool? I bet you didn't.

Carlos Ruiz is NOT getting it done in the offense for Philadelphia. They need to make a change soon.

Futty Danso got a well deserved towering header goal for the Timbers win, he has been playing well lately. See it here.

Sheanon Willams was marking Futty throughout the game and lost that mark many times.

Koke got his first start for Houston.

TFC has been consistent about 3 things since day 1. 1) A very powerful home crowd. 2) Terrible defense. 3) Terrible offense.

They tried yet another back 4 this week, leaving Adrian Cann in the middle, and putting 3 more unknowns around him. One of these times its going to work, and the longer it goes on not working the closer we are to finding the right lineup. The odds say so. Could this be the one? Check back in August.

TFC got their first goal when Dynamo veteran Eddie Robinson gave away an awful ball in the back then teammate Andre Hainault committed a dumb foul for a Penalty.

Houston poured it on late and game one back via Lovel Palmer, but it was not enough.

After a great start to the season Houston lost their second in a row.

Dallas made another mistake by starting Brek Shea at left full back again.

FCD also started in a 4-5-1 and after half time switched into a futile 4-6-0 formation. COME ON!

Eric Avila appears to be the full time replacement for David Ferreira.

Steven King got the start in the middle of the DC midfield, and he did a pretty good job too. I believe Clyde Simms was hurt.

Looked like another very small crowd in DC. Whats up?

Fredy Montero scored a great header goal that Seattle almost held onto. But didn't.

Columbus got their goal via the Penalty spot. The call was made on Patrick Ianna for dragging down Chad Marshall on a corner kick. But to my way of thinking that is a deliberate foul which should also earn the culprit a yellow card. None was given. Bogus dude.

By the way the pushing and shoving that was called is that crap we see on 3 out of every 4 corner kicks taken around the world. Lame call.

This new guy in Seattle who is known as Servando Carrasco is nothing but a thug.

FYI - Ken Burns if filming a documentary on the Columbus Crew and his son Kevin.

One rule change I would like to see: When a guy goes down hurt they should bring out the stretcher immediately and load him up. Then carry him off and let the doc look at him while play resumes. This will cut down on a lot of time wasting garbage.

Columbus brought a lot of pressure late in the game to try and win, but their over all team creativity is so low that they never really came close. They ended up just taking a lot of long shot that were nowhere near the target.

Emilio Renteria is the best Crew attacker right now, and he is more of a Ohio State tailback than a soccer player.

New England v Colorado = Aston Villa v Newcastle = unwatchable. Why can't we see more MLS games that look like something akin to Villarreal v Atletico Madrid instead?

I did not see enough of the other games to comment yet.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated with five things you should know about Week 8 in MLS.

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com give us his Monday Morning Breakdown - LA and NY show how its done and other fun facts.

MLS RESERVE LEAGUE

Matches & Scores:

-Mon May 9

Columbus Crew 1-0 New England Revolution - CC goal by Justin Meram.

Seattle Sounders v Chivas USA

-Sun May 15

Real Salt Lake v Houston Dynamo

Seattle Sounders v Portland Timbers

-Mon May 16

Philadelphia Union v DC United

-Tue May 17

Chicago Fire SC v Sporting Kansas City

dN

MLS Reserve League Standings Etc.

NASL SCOREBOARD

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 7

FC Tampa Bay 1-3 Carolina RailHawks - FCTB goal by Pascal Millien. CRH goals by Etienne Barbara(2) & Brian Farber.

Atlanta Silverbacks 0-2 FC Edmonton - FCE goals by Paul Craig & Luke Porter.

NSC Minnesota Stars 1-1 Fort Lauderdale Strikers - NSC goal by Simone Bracalello. FLS goal by Eduardo Coudet(PK).

-Wed May 11

Carolina RailHawks v Ft Lauderdale Strikers

FC Tampa Bay v FC Edmonton

-Sat May 14

Montreal Impact v Carolina RailHawks

Ft Lauderdale Strikers v FC Tampa Bay

NSC Minnesota Stars v Atlanta Silverbacks

dN

Standings (as of Sun May 8):

10 Puerto Rico Islanders (+5 GD) (4 GP)

10 Carolina RailHawks (+4 GD) (5 GP)

9 FC Edmonton (-3 GD) (5 GP)

6 Fort Lauderdale Strikers (0 GD) (5 GP)

6 NSC Minnesota Stars (-1 GD) (5 GP)

5 FC Tampa Bay (-3 GD) (5 GP)

4 Montreal Impact (+3 GD) (4 GP)

1 Atlanta Silverbacks (-5 GD) (5 GP)

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Oguchi Onyewu did not even suit up as this team Twente won the Netherlands league Cup final. Next weekend they will play for the Eredivisie crown. Will he? What has happened over there?

dN

Alejandro Bedoya scored another goal for Orebro, but in a losing effort.

dN

Frank Simek dislocated his elbow in the final Carlisle game of the season. Damn.

dN

Does anyone know why Robbie Findley is back out of the Nottingham Forest game day 18?

-In the mean time his team is in the Championship Division promotion playoffs.

dN

Etchu Tabe is playing in the top division of Finland this season, and he scored the game tying goal in the last seconds today! Awesome.

dN

Charles Kazlauskas and his team Helmond Sport are in the promotion playoffs in the Dutch 2nd division.

dN

Game Action:

DENMARK - Superliga -

Clarence Goodson - Brondy - played the entire game as they drew 1-1 v Kobenhavn.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - returned to the bench from injury layoff but lost 2-0 at Esbjerg.

Chris Rolfe - AaB - played the first half as they won 2-1 v Lyngby.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Michael Bradley - Aston Villa - gettin splinters are they drew 1-1 v Wigan.

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - went the full game getting a yellow card but losing badly 2-5 v Liverpool.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance in a tie 1-1 v Wigan.

Tim Howard - Everton - in goal as always and they knocked off Man City 2-1.

Jermaine Jones - Blackburn - played the full match as they tied 1-1 at West Ham.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - went the full 90 getting a yellow card as they tied 1-1 v Blackburn.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Conor Doyle - Derby County - came on as a sub in the 81st min but they lost 2-1 at Reading.

Eric Lichaj - Leeds - played the whole game and they won 1-2 at QPR.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - went the distance in a 2-2 tie v Coventry.

ENGLAND - League One

Anton Peterlin - Plymouth Argyle - went the full 90 but they lost 1-4 v Leyton Orient.

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - started but was subbed out in the 34th min and they lost 0-2 v Yeovil Town.

FINLAND - Veikkausliiga -

Etchu Tabe - RoPS - Fri May 6 went the distance as they won 1-0 v Jaro.

Etchu Tabe - RoPS - Mon May 9 went the distance again getting a yellow card then scoring the tied goal in the dying seconds as they drew 2-2 at Mariehamn.

Mason Trafford - Mariehamn - played the entire game as they drew 3-3 v ROPS.

Josh Wicks - Mariehamn - went the full 90 as they tied 3-3 v ROPS.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - played the whole 9 yards as they won 0-1 at Arles.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Timmy Chandler - Nurnberg - played the whole game but lost 1-2 v Hoffenheim.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - started but came out in the 84th min as they lost 2-1 at Stuttgart.

Ricardo Clark - Eintracht Frankfurt - did not suit up as they lost 0-2 v Koln.

Daniel Williams - Freiburg - came on as a sub in the 68th min but lost 2-0 at Monchengladbach.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Edson Buddle - Ingolstadt - came on as a sub at half time and scored the game tying goal as it finished 1-1 at 1860.

Luis Robles - Karlsruher - was replaced in goal this week but they lost 2-1 at Arminia Bielefeld.

David Yelldell - Duisburg - went the distance as they won 3-1 v Paderborn.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the full game as they won 5-1 v Telstar.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - played the whole game and they won 3-4 at Haugesund.

Josh Gatt - Molde - was not on the game day roster as they lost 0-2 v Rosenborg.

SCOTLAND - Premier League Second Stage

Mo Edu - Rangers - started and went 73 min getting a yellow card and they won 4-0 v Hearts.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Gale Agbossoumonde - Djurgarden - played the full 90 as they won 2-0 v Halmstad.

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - went the distance scoring a goal but losing 1-2 v Kalmar.

Ryan Miller - Halmstad - on the bench but they lost 2-0 at Djurgarden.

TURKEY - Super Lig

Jozy Altidore - Bursaspor - game v Besiktas was postponed due to fan violence.

TURKEY - 1. Lig

Freddie Adu - Caykur Rizespor - went the full 90 and scored what became the game winning goal as they won 3-1 v Tavsanli Linyitspor.

dN

Coming Up:

BELGIUM - Pro League - Playoff I

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - Wed May 11 v Gent

ENGLAND - Championship Division - Promotion Playoffs Semifinals

Robbie Findley - Nottingham Forest - 1st Leg Thu May 12 v Swansea City

Robbie Findley - Nottingham Forest - 2nd Leg Mon May 16 at Swansea City

SCOTLAND - Premier League Second Stage

Mo Edu - Rangers - Tue May 10 v Dundee United

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Game Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION - Liguilla Quarterfinals

2nd Leg

Jonathan Bornstein - UANL Tigres - Sat May 7 - was not in uniform as they drew 1-1 v Guadalajara, but were bounced from the playoffs 4-2 on aggregate.

Sonny Guadarrama - Atlante - Sat May 7 - started but was subbed out in the 68th min of a scoreless draw v Cruz Azul, and they were eliminated 2-1 on agg.

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - Sat May 7 - played the whole game getting a yellow card as they drew 1-1 at UANL Tigres, and won the series 4-2.

LIGA DE ASCENSO (2nd division) - Promotion Playoff Semifinals

Joe Benny Corona - Tijuana - 2nd Leg Sat May 7 - went the full 90 as they won 0-2 at Leon, and advance to the Final 3-0 on aggregate.

dN

Coming Up:

PRIMERA DIVISION - Liguilla Semifinals

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - 1st Leg Thu May 12 v Pumas

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - 2nd Leg Sun May 15 at Pumas

LIGA DE ASCENSO (2nd division) - Promotion Playoff Semifinals

Joe Benny Corona - Tijuana - 1st Leg Wed May 11 v Irapuato

Joe Benny Corona - Tijuana - 2nd Leg Sat May 14 at Irapuato

MEXICO

Laguilla - Quarterfinals

Recap du Nord: #8 Chivas has knocked out #1 Tigres! And lower seeded Cruz Azul advanced as well. In the other bracket the two favorites won - Pumas and Morelia.

Matches & Scores: (seeds included)

2nd Leg (1st Leg scores included)

-Sat May 7

UANL Tigres(1) 1-1 Guadalajara(8) - Gua advances 4-2 on aggregate. UT goal by Hector Mancilla. Gau goal by Hector Reynoso.

Atlante(4) 0-0 Cruz Azul(5) - CA advances 2-1 on aggregate.

-Sun May 8

UNAM Pumas(2) 2-0 Monterrey(7) - UP advances 5-1 on aggregate. UP goals by Efrain Velarde & Luis Fuentes.

Morelia(3) 3-2 America(6) - Mor advances 5-3 on aggregate. Mor goals by Joao Rojas(2) & Rafa Marquez Lugo(PK). Ame goals by Diego Reyes & Vicente Vuoso.

dN

Semifinals

1st Leg

-Thu May 12

Guadalajara(8) v UNAM Pumas(2)

Cruz Azul(5) v Morelia(3)

2nd Leg

-Sun May 15

UNAM Pumas(2) v Guadalajara(8)

Moreli(3) v Cruz Azul(5)

If series ends tied the first tie breaker is seeding.

CENTRAL AMERICA

Honduras

Clausura - Final

1st Leg

-Sun May 8

Motagua 2-2 Olimpia - Mon goals by Amado Guevara & Jerry Bengston. Oli goals by Douglas Caetano & Ramiro Bruschi.

2nd Leg

-Sun May 15

Olimpia v Motagua (2-2)

dN

Guatemala

Claurusa - Semifinals

2nd Leg

-Sun May 8

Municipal 1-0 Malacateco - Mun advances 1-0 on aggregate. Mun goal by Pedro Samayoa.

Heredia 1-0 Comunicaciones - Com advances 2-1 on aggregate. Her goal by Julian Chacon.

Final

1st Leg

-Thu May 12

Comunicaciones v Municipal

2nd Leg

-Sun May 15

Municipal v Comunicaciones

dN

Costa Rica

Torneo De Verano - Final

1st Leg

-Sun May 8

San Carlos 0-1 Alajuelense - Ala goal by Jose Salvatierra.

2nd Leg

-Sat May 14

Alajuelense v San Carlos (1-0)

ENGLAND

Recap du Nord: Manchester United won on Sunday to all but clinch another title. They beat #2 Chelsea, while #3 Arsenal & #4 Man City both lost as well. 5th place Liverpool continued their upward charge with another win.

Top of the Premier League Table: (36 of 38 GP)

76 Man United - Sun May 8 W 2-1 v Chelsea

70 Chelsea - Sun May 8 L 2-1 at Man United

67 Arsenal - Sun May 8 L 3-1 at Stoke

62 Man City - Sat May 7 L 2-1 at Everton - Tue May 10 v Tottenham

58 Liverpool - Mon May 9 W 2-5 at Fulham

dN

Championship Division - Promotion Playoffs (to Premier League) - 1 team will advance

Queens Park Rangers and Norwich City have already been promoted.

1st Leg

-Thu May 12

Nottingham Forest v Swansea City

-Fri May 13

Reading v Cardiff City

2nd Leg

-Mon May 16

Swansea City v Nottingham Forest

-Tue May 17

Cardiff City v Reading

SPAIN

Recap du Nord: #1 Barca cruised in the Barcelona derby, #2 Madrid destroyed Sevilla, #3 Valenica won while #4 Villarreal drew. But no one wants to be #5 as Atletico Madrid threw it away again, and Bilbao took it back with a win.

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Julio Baptista leading Malaga to safety near the bottom, and the rest of the round in La Liga.

Top of the Primera Division Table: (35 of 38 GP)

91 Barcelona - Sun May 8 W 2-0 v Espanyol

83 Real Madrid - Sat May 7 W 2-6 at Sevilla

66 Valencia - Sat May 7 W 3-0 v Real Sociedad

61 Villarreal - Sun May 8 D 0-0 at Mallorca

54 Athletic Bilbao - Sat May 7 W 3-2 v Levante

- - - - -

52 Atletico Madrid - Sat May 7 L 0-3 v Malaga

FRANCE

Recap du Nord: Lille opened up its biggest lead of 4 points at #1, while #2 Marseille lost to #3 Lyon, and #4 PSG lost and #5 Rennes drew.

Top of the Ligue 1 Table: (34 GP of 38)

66 Lille - Sat May 7 W 0-1 at Nancy

62 Marsielle - Sun May 8 L 3-2 at Lyon

59 Lyon - Sun May 8 W 3-2 v Marseille

57 PSG - Sat May 7 D 1-1 at Monaco

52 Rennes - Sun May 8 L 2-0 at Valenciennes

GERMANY

Recap du Nord: Champion Dortmund's loss was irrelevant. #2 Leverkusen drew leaving the door open for #3 Bayern who had a huge win to try and steal 2nd now. #4 Hannover lost, and they too opened the door for #5 Mainz who won to steal that position in the remaining 2 rounds.

Top of the Bundesliga Table: (33 of 34 GP)

**72 Borussia Dortmund - Sat May 7 L 2-0 at Werder Bremen

65 Bayer Leverkusen - Sat May 7 D 1-1 v Hamburg

62 Bayern Munich - Sat May 7 W 1-8 at St Pauli

57 Hannover - Sat May 7 L 2-1 at Stuttgart

55 Mainz - Sat May 7 W 1-3 at Schalke

** 2010/11 Champions

dN

The first of what could be many of the amazing talents at Dortmund is gone as midfielder Nuri Sahin has a signed a deal with Real Madrid.

ITALY

AC Milan is the 2010/11 Serie A champions.

Recap du Nord: Milan have won it all wtih a tie. #2 Inter won again but remain 9 points back with 3 games to play and Milan owns the first tie breaker, head-to-head. #3 Napoli lost. Udinese won though rising to #4, but Lazio bombed out and fell to 6th place, letting Roma who drew move up to #5.

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian says Milan coach Massimiliano Allegri is The Man, and the rest of the weekend around Serie A.

Top of the Serie A Table: (36 of 38 GP)

**78 Milan - Sat May 7 D 0-0 at Roma

72 Inter - Sun May 8 W 3-1 v Fiorentina

68 Napoli - Sun May 8 L 2-1 at Lecce

62 Udinese - Sun May 8 W 2-1 v Lazio

60 Roma - Sat May 7 D 0-0 v Milan

- - - - -

60 Lazio - Sun May 8 at Udinese

** 2010/11 Champions

dN

COPPA ITALIA

Semifinals

2nd Leg (1st Leg scores included)

-Tue May 10

Palermo v Milan (2-2)

-Wed May 11

Inter v Roma (1-0)

EUROPE

Fan violence with police in Bursa kept the Bursaspor and Besiktas players off the field on Saturday. The same two groups of fans went at it last fall in Instanbul. What fools these supposed fans are. No word on what will happen to the teams if punishment is doled out.

dN

Netherland

Twente won the league cup, and next weekend the same two will play for the league title!

KNVB Beker - Final

-Sun May 8

Ajax 2-3 Twente

ENDERS

Here is the USA 2011 Women's World Cup roster

G:

Nicole Barnhart - Philadelphia Independence

Jill Loyden - magicJack

Hope Solo - magicJack

D:

Rachel Buehler - Boston Breakers

Stephanie Cox - Boston Breakers

Ali Krieger - no club

Amy LePeilbet - Boston Breakers

Heather Mitts - Atlanta Beat

Christie Rampone - magicJack

Becky Sauerbrunn - magicJack

M:

Shannon Boxx - magicJack

Tobin Heath - Sky Blue FC

Lori Lindsey - Philadelphia Independence

Carli Lloyd - Atlanta Beat

Heather O’Reilly - Sky Blue FC

Megan Rapinoe - Philadelphia Independence

Lindsay Tarpley - magicJack

F:

Lauren Cheney - Boston Breakers

Alex Morgan - Western New York Flash

Amy Rodriguez - Philadelphia Independence

Abby Wambach - magicJack
