STARTERS

After a hugely successful Spring season at Puebla in Mexico for Herculez Gomez, he has been snapped up by Pachuca. He will join his fellow American Jose Torres. Not bad!

dN

Toluca are Mexican Clausura Champions! Hooray Dos Equis!

dN

As you can read from the headline in Marca on Sunday, Jose Mourinho is headed to Real Madrid.

-Daniele De Rossi of Roma, Douglas Maicon of Inter and Steven Gerrard of Liverpool are reportedly all headed to Real Madrid as well.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Inter Milan have won the big European club championship for the first time since the back-to-back seasons of 63/64 and 64/65. Hooray Bruce!

dN

Diego Milito was the hero of the game scoring both goals on brilliant moves that left defenders and goalkeeper baffled as to how to stop him. Glorious performance.

dN

The Grand Finale!

-Sat May 22

Football Club Internazionale Milano 2-0 Fussball-Club Bayern Munchen - Int goals both by Diego Milito.

Venue: Estadio Santiago Bernabeu - Madrid, Spain

dN

I only really need to see one article after the game:

Jonathan Wilson at Sports Illustrated on Inter's deserved win.

OK, two:

Gabriele Marcotti of The Times on the historical meanings of Inter's huge win.

dN

The final was game #700 in an Inter uniform for Javier Zanetti! And after a season like this one, you get to cry!

dN

7 of the 14 players Bayern used were German.

Only 1 of the 14 players Inter used was Italian.

dN

Inter gives us photos from the big celebration on Sunday back in Milan.

dN

The two teams were both hoping to win the coveted triple - that's the three main trophies in one season: League, League Cup and European Cup. Both have already won the first 2 but now is the one that achieved that huge goal.

Inter:

*Serie A - won the league championship on Sun May 16.

*Coppa Italia - won the league Cup 1-0 over Roma on Wed May 5.

*Champions League - won the final 2-0 on Sat May 22 over Bayern Munich.

Bayern:

*Bundesliga - won the league championship on Sat May 8.

*DFB Pokal - won the league cup 4-0 over Werder Bremen on Sat May 15.

Champions League - lost in the final 0-2 on Sat May 22 to Inter Milan.

UEFA CHAMPIONS IN AMERICA THIS SUMMER

As was announced last week, Inter Milan will be in America as part of their pre-season training, with a game against Manchester City announced on Sat Jul 31 in Baltimore at M&T Bank Stadium.

Now you can add to that Sat Aug 7 in Los Angeles at the Home Depot Center against the Galaxy. Hoooohooo.

And also a game against FC Dallas on Thu Aug 5 at Pizza Hut Park.

-Gee, first week of August.... the temp should only be about 104 that day!

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

It was revealed over the weekend that Carlos Bocanegra had hernia surgery on May 5. The procedure was done in Germany by the doctor who developed the less intrusive and quick recovery style repair.

dN

Kelly Whiteside of the USA Today does an enlightening Q & A with Landon Donovan.

-Also in a side are gambling odds for who will win the World Cup. The USA is sitting at at typical 75-1. But I have to admit that I am surprised to see these 3 ahead our team:

Chile 60:1

Paraguay 60:1

Serbia 70:1

-Our group opponents are at:

England 7:1

Slovenia 275:1

Algeria 400:1

dN

The Trentonian on the teams training at Princeton.

-The paper reports that the team will visit the White House on Thursday.

dN

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated says that Tuesday's game against the Czechs will be the only chance some guys will get to earn a roster spot. Who does Wahl think those 23 will be?

dN

Wahl also hears from coach Bob Bradley on the importance of Princeton University on his life.

dN

Steve Davis on his blog Daily Soccer Fix with a great article - the improbable rise of US candidate Herculez Gomez.

dN

Jere Longman of the New York Times with the saga of the American goalkeeper in the English leagues.

dN

Franco Panizo of Soccer By Ives on Steve Cherundolo and his leadership qualities.

dN

Yanks Abroad with articles on 3 players:

-Herculez Gomez

-Brad Guzan

-Oguchi Onyewu

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post with focus on the USA defensive corp.

dN

Adam Spangler of This Is American Soccer with Part 1-4 of 5 of his feature story on Sacha Kljestan.

Part 4

Part 3

Part 2

Part 1

dN

- - - - -

Official Team Blog

The US Soccer video page at You Tube. Fantastic stuff!

- - - - -

dN

USA OPPONENTS

Algeria

-The BBC digs a little deeper into our 3rd opponent.

dN

Turkey and the Czech Rep warmed up for their games against the USA by battling each other on Saturday night in New Jersey at Red Bull Arena. The Turks won it 2-1 on goals by Arda Turan & Nihat Kahvec. CR got their single goal from Milan Cerny.

dN

28,000 tickets have been sold for Tuesday nights game. Capacity is about 40,000.

Pre-World Cup Warm Up Matches & Scores:

-Tue May 25

USA V Czech Republic - 7pm Central on ESPN

Venue: Rentschler Field - East Hartford CT

dN

Czechia roster:

G:

Petr Cech - Chelsea

Jaroslav Drobny - Hertha Berlin

Jan Lastuvka - Dnipro

D:

Tomas Hubschman - Shakhtar Donetsk

David Limbersky - Plzen

Ondrej Kusnir - Sparta Prague

Ondrej Mazuch - Anderlecht

Jan Rajnoch - Ankaragucu

Tomas Sivok - Besiktas

M:

Jaroslav Cerny - Slavia Prague

Milan Cerny - Slavia Prague

Mario Holek - Dnipro

Jan Moravek - Schalke

Jaroslav Plasil - Bordeaux

Jan Polak - Anderlecht

Daniel Pudil - Genk

Libor Sionko - Sparta Prague

Rudolf Skacel - Larissa

F:

Martin Fenin - Eintracht Frankfurt

David Lafata - Liberec

Tomas Necid - CSKA Moscow

Tomas Pekhart - Jablonec

WORLD CUP 2010 - SOUTH AFRICA

Sirius Satellite radio will again broadcast all 64 World Cup games in American. Their lead announcers will be JP Dellacamera and Tommy Smyth.

Portugal got off to a poor start today in a scoreless draw against the Cape Verdes Islands.

On the other hand Argentina handed Canada their lunch in a wet leaky back winning 5-0.

-But is Maradona really going to line up in a 3-5-2?

Owen Gibson of the Guardian sees England's win today over Mexico as inconsistent.

Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Mon May 24

Argentina 5-0 Canada - Arg goals by Maxi Rodriguez(2), Angel Di Maria, Carlos Tevez & Kun Aguero.

Australia 2-1 New Zealand - Aus goals by Dario Vidosic & Brett Holman. NZ goal by Chris Killen.

England 3-1 Mexico - Eng goals by Ledley King, Peter Crouch & Gus Johnson. Mex goal by Guillermo Franco.

Japan 0-2 South Korea - SK goals by Ji-Sung Park & Chu-Young Park(PK).

Portugal 0-0 Cape Verdes Islands

South Africa 1-1 Bulgaria - SF goal by Siyabonga Sangweni. Bul goal by Valeri Bojinov.

-Tue May 25

Cameroon v Georgia

Greece v North Korea

Nigeria v Saudi Arabia

Paraguay v Ireland

USA v Czech Republic

-Wed May 26

Chile v Zambia

France v Costa Rica

Mexico v Netherlands

Uruguay v Israel

dN

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Mexico's Andrew Guardado.

dN

James Lawton of the Independent sees potential gold in the offing for Maradona and Argentina.

dN

France named their final 23 today, and are in action on Wednesday:

G:

Cedric Carrasso - Bordeaux

Hugo Lloris - Lyon

Steve Mandanda - Marseille

D:

Eric Abidal - Barcelona

Gael Clichy - Arsenal

Patrice Evra - Manchester United

William Gallas - Arsenal

Marc Planus - Bordeaux

Anthony Reveillere - Lyon

Bacary Sagna - Arsenal

Sebastien Squillaci - Sevilla

M:

Abou Diaby - Arsenal

Alou Diarra - Bordeaux

Yoann Gourcuff - Bordeaux

Florent Malouda - Chelsea

Jeremy Toulalan - Lyon

Mathieu Valbuena - Marseille

F:

Nicolas Anelka - Chelsea

Djibril Cisse - Panathinaikos

Andre-Pierre Gignac - Toulouse

Sidney Govou - Lyon

Thierry Henry - Barcelona

Franck Ribery - Bayern Munich

dN

The Glasgow Times talks to New England head coach Steve Nicol and they look back at the 1986 World Cup, which he played in with Scotland.

FACT OF THE DAY

I want this shirt. XXL please. Thanks.

STORY OF THE DAY

Martin Rogers of Yahoo Sports gives us his 2009/10 best 11 European players.

-What do ya think? Who did he miss, and who should they replace on his list?

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

The Union of Philadelphia has posted a video preview of the nearly completed stadium PPL Park. WOWOWOWOW!

MLS WEEK 9

-Thu May 20

New York Red Bulls 1-3 Columbus Crew - NYRB goal by Tony Tchani. CC goals by Eddie Gaven, Andy Iro & Emilio Renteria.

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

Attendance: 11,940

FC Dallas 0-1 Los Angeles Galaxy - LAG goal by Mike Magee.

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Attendance: 10,947

-Sat May 22

Toronto FC 1-0 New England Revolution - TFC goal by Chad Barrett.

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Attendance: 20,672

Seattle Sounders FC 0-1 San Jose Earthquakes - SJE goal by Chris Wondolowski.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 35,953

Houston Dynamo 2-0 DC United - HD goals by Danny Cruz & Dominic Oduro.

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Attendance: 24,471

Chivas USA 1-2 Real Salt Lake - CUSA goal by Justin Braun. RSL goals by Chris Wingert & Fabian Espindola.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 14,287

-Sun May 23

Kansas City Wizards 0-1 Columbus Crew - CC goal by Emilio Renteria.

Venue: CommunityAmerica Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Attendance: 10,385

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated gives us five things to take away from Week 9.

dN

Kyle Mccarthy of Goal.com with his Monday Morning Breakdown - here come's RSL, and the rest of the weekend in review.

dN

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe informs us that along with Shalrie Joseph entering the league's Substance Abuse and Behavioral Health program he was also give a 5 game suspension. But no reason was given for the suspension.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America looks at Seattle's struggle to score goals and earn points.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer hips us to another unknown kid with the Red Bulls harboring lots of talent, Irving Garcia, who showed it in the team's friendly against Juventus.

dN

Nigel Reed of the CBC says the key to a big season for Toronto is their defense.

-I like Reed a lot but, NO SHIT SHERLOCK!!! Did he just figure this out?

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch in his Crew match report looks at the teams road "style".

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News with an article on one of those in a seemingly endless stream of players that has a lot of potential but will he make it in MLS - Salt Lake midfielder Jean Alexandre.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America with an article on RSL's biggest off season find so far this year is Alvaro Saborio. With some good insider stuff here.

dN

Charles Gooch at the Kansas City Star with his thoughts on ways KC can get their machine rolling - not all are on field specific!

dN

Joshua Mayer of the Seattle Times does short Q & A's with Sounder coach Sigi Schmid and general manager Adrian Hanauer.

dN

The Houston Press on the up-tick in performance by highly paid Dynamo forward Luis Landin.

MLS INJURY REPORT

Seattle's top rate centerback Jhon Kennedy Hurtado will be out the next 6-8 weeks due to a torn left anterior cruciate ligament.

DU NORD PLAYER OF THE WEEK

How can it not be San Jose midfielder Bobby Convey! He is finally seems completely out of his own personal goo goo much and tearing down the left side of the field again. Its fantastic to see someone with so much promise turn it all back around again.

MY THOUGHTS

21,154 was the average attendance for the 5 games on Saturday & Sunday, and could have been higher if the KC max capacity was bigger.

San Jose has now gone 4 games without giving up a goal. 3 wins and 1 loss, with 6 goals scored too.

And Chris Wondolowski is just tearing it up for the Earthquakes in front of goal. He has played in 6 games and nabbed 5 goals. Is this his year?

Houston's yo-yo season was back up!

20 year old Danny Cruz got his first ever MLS start and goal for Houston!

Tally Hall also got his first league start and got the shut out for Houston.

There is a chance we might see KC's Craig Rocastle further punished by the league for the vicious kick he put on Columbus's Renteria while laying on the ground. The ref gave him a yellow card, but it was red worthy.

And how about Renteria making two sub appearances this week and bagging big goals in each of them! Nicely done!

Great to see Shalrie Joseph back on the field for New England this weekend.

But the Revolution team are seriously running on all flat tires right now as they have not won in the past 7 league games - 2 ties and 5 losses - oof!

Preki is doing his thing for Toronto, no doubt about it. Just like at Chivas for 3 seasons. It's not pretty, but there are no points for looks either.

Chad Barrett did his damnedest to keep his role on the team as "the Vasectomy" missing 2 primo chances, but finally got his head on one and won the game. Great job.

Fuad Ibrahim from right here in my Twin Cities got a rate start for TFC. He is looking grown up these days.

Another Twin Citian Teal Bunbury got his first MLS start with Kansas City on Sunday.

I feel bad about this, but from all the years of my team have a fierce rivalry with Seattle I cannot help but derive a bit of glee every time Seattle loses. I know that makes me petty, then again I am petty.

How bad is the foot injury for RSL's Kyle Beckerman? He was subbed off in the 20th min. I guess we are supposed to know on Tuesday.

Chivas USA committed that old sin of not giving up goals at the ends of halves - one goal at the end of half 1, and another at the end of half 2, at home no less, doomed them against Salt Lake.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

How about this one - MLS is opening a development academy for Ticket Sales Reps. Yes, you read that right. And for some reason they are staring it right here in my Twin Cities, in connection with our second division team NSC Minnesota Stars. Why not with one of their own teams? Weird, weird, weird!

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com talks to Union head-cheese Nick Sakiewicz about building a stadium for New York and now Philadelphia.

dN

MSNBC's SportsBiz page on the new wave and style of stadiums being built in America, like Red Bull Arena.

MLS RUMORS

Spanish forward Nacho Novo has reportedly turned down an offer from DC United. He has left Rangers and signed with Sporting Gijon.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

The Fire finished last in their own tournament, with Red Star of Belgrade, Serbia taking home the Cup!

Sister Cities International Cup

-Wed May 19

Chicago Fire 0-1 Paris Saint-Germain (France)

Legia Warsaw (Poland) 0-1 Red Star Belgrade(Serbia)

-Sat May 22

Paris Saint-Germain 1-1 Red Star Belgrade - Red Star win 7-6 in Penalty Kick Shootout.

Chicago Fire 0-3 Legia Warsaw - for the pride

Match report by Len Ziehm of the Chicago Sun Times.

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

dN

New York stomped a Juventus team that featured regulars Grosso, Salihamidzic, Zebina, Diego, Trezeguet, Amauri and Del Piero. Juve got their only goal in 2nd half stoppage time. Not bad guys, not bad at all.

If you go to the official Juve website you will see articles about the team arriving in New York, and then it skips right to the big welcome they got in Toronto for a Tuesday game against Sampdoria. Oops. A couple players make mention of the hammering in passing, otherwise you would definitely not know it happened.

The MLS Insider got video of this Juve fan go off on his sorry team.

And in LA the young academy trainee Tristan Bowen gets his first professional Galaxy goal as they beat Boca Juniors. Bowen will certainly get a lot more chances over the next 6 weeks if Edson Buddle makes the USA World Cup team.

-Sun May 23

New York Red Bulls 3-1 Juventus (Italy) - NYRB goals by Jeremy Hall, Conor Chinn & Juan Pablo Angel. Juv goal by Amauri.

Venue: Red Bull Arena

Los Angeles Galaxy 1-0 Boca Juniors (Argentina) - LAG goal by Tristan Bowen.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Wed May 26

DC United v AC Milan (Italy)

Venue: RFK Stadium

Seattle Sounders v Boca Juniors (Argentina)

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

dN

Newly added:

-Thu Aug 5

FC Dallas v Inter Milan (Italy)

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

-Sat Aug 7

Los Angeles Galaxy v Inter Milan (Italy)

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

US OPEN CUP

MLS - Play-In Round with the winner advancing to the Round of 16:

-Wed May 26

New York Red Bulls v Colorado Rapids

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

dN

All the best Open Cup info can be found right here at The Cup.

USSF DIVISION 2

Travis Clark of Soccer By Ives with a round up from the weekend.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 22

Crystal Palace Baltimore 1-0 Portland Timbers

Miami FC Blues 0-1 NSC Minnesota Stars

AC St Louis 0-3 Tampa Bay Rowdies

Vancouver Whitecaps 2-0 Rochester Rhinos

-Wed May 26

Miami FC Blues v Austin Aztex

Puerto Rico Islanders v Carolina RailHawks

-Thu May 27

Tampa Bay Rowdies v NSC Minnesota Stars

-Sat May 29

Rochester Rhinos v Vancouver Whitecaps

Crystal Palace Baltimore v Austin Aztex

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Puerto Rico Islanders

NSC Minnesota Stars v AC St Louis

-Sun May 30

Montreal Impact v Carolina RailHawks

dN

Standings (As of Sun May 23):

14 Austin - 7 played

12 Vancouver - 7 played

12 Tampa Bay - 7 played

11 Montreal - 6 played

11 Rochester - 8 played

11 Portland - 8 played

10 Baltimore - 8 played

8 Miami - 6 played

7 Minnesota - 9 played

6 Puerto Rico - 3 played

5 Carolina - 5 played

4 St Louis - 8 played

dN

Standings base on Points Per Game:

2.00 Puerto Rico

2.00 Austin

1.83 Montreal

1.71 Tampa Bay

1.71 Vancouver

1.38 Portland

1.38 Rochester

1.33 Miami

1.25 Baltimore

1.00 Carolina

0.78 Minnesota

0.50 St Louis

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Brian Quarstad of Inside Minnesota Soccer reports on a Reunion game played last Saturday in El Paso TX featuring members of USA & Mexico World Cup teams of days gone by.

-Approx 20,000 in attendance?!?! Wow.

-Brian and I talked about how nice it would be if any of us knew about this BEFORE it happened.

-Here is a match report from the El Paso Times.

USA U20 TEAM

The USA U20's were in the Cor Groenewegen Tournamentin Netherlands and finished 8th out of 12 teams.

dN

Official USA Matches & Scores:

USA 2-1 Japan

USA 0-0 Atl Mineiro

USA 1-0 Lokeren

USA 0-0 Utrecht

USA 1-0 Heerenveen

- - - - -

7th Place game:

USA 0-1 Senegal

Championship:

Japan v South Korea

dN

Group A Standings

12 FC Twente (Netherlands)

12 South Korea

10 Cruz Azul (Mexico)

7 Senegal

3 FC Uitgeest (Netherlands - host team)

0 Canada

Group B Standings

11 Atletico Mineiro (Brazil)

10 Japan

8 FC Utrecht (Netherlands)

8 USA

4 SC Heerenveen (Netherlands)

0 Sporting Lokeren (Netherlands)

dN

USA Roster:

G:

Samir Badr - Porto

Cody Cropper - Ipswich Town

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Braga

Chad Barson - Akron

Bryan De La Fuente - Chivas USA

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Kofi Sarkodie - Akron

Zarek Valentin - Akron

Parker Walsh - 1860 Munich

M:

Erik Benjaminsen - Stabaek

Lester Dewee - Olympique Marseille

Bryan Dominguez - Miami FC

Alex Molano - Dinamo Zagreb

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Moises Orozco - Real So Cal

George Pantelic - RAD Belgrade

Cesar Zamora - Chivas USA

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Jack McInerney - Philadelphia Union

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich

CONCACAF

Not a good day for our regional cousins.

Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Mon May 24

Argentina 5-0 Canada in Buenos Aires, Argentina

England 3-1 Mexico in London at Wembley Stadium

-Tue May 25

USA v Czech Republic - in East Hartford CT at Rentschler Field

-Wed May 26

Netherlands v Mexico in Freiburg, Germany

-Thu May 27

Honduras v Belarus in Villach, Austria

-Sat May 29

USA v Turkey - in Philadelphia at Lincoln Financial Field

Venezuela v Canada - in Merida, Venezuela

-Sun May 30

Gambia v Mexico - in Bayreuth, Germany

-Tue Jun 1

Switzerland v Costa Rica - in Sion, Switzerland

-Wed Jun 2

Honduras v Azerbaijan in Zell Am See, Austria

-Thu Jun 3

Italy v Mexico - in Brussels, Belgium

-Sat Jun 5

USA v Australia - in Roodepoort, South Africa at Ruimsig Stadium

Honduras v Romania in St. Veit An Der Glan, Austria

Slovakia v Costa Rica in Bratislava, Slovakia

MEXICO

Toluca are Mexican Champions! Hooray Dos Equis!

Santos could have won the title but twice they missed the entire goal with PKs.

Clausura 2010 playoffs:

Matches & Scores - Final:

2nd Leg

-Sun May 23

Toluca 0-0 Santos Laguna - series ends tied 2-2, with Toluca then winning 4-3 in a Penalty Kick shootout.

CENTRAL AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN

Isidro Metapan is the El Salvador Primera Division Clausura Championship!

Final Match & Score:

-Sun May 23

Aguila 1-3 Isidro Metapan

ENGLAND

Blackpool becomes the 3rd and final Championship division team promoted to the Premier League for next season.

Two Championship division teams played-off for the one last promotion spot to the Premier League:

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 22

Cardiff City 2-3 Blackpool

Venue: Wembley Arena

SPAIN

Bloomberg with an article on the unprofitability of top flight soccer in Spain.

-Only 4 teams in La Primera Division turned a profit in 09.

GERMANY

Franck Ribery has signed a new contract at Bayern Munich that runs to the end of the 2014/15 season. This does not mean he is staying for 5 more years, just that his pricetag to leave has gone UP.

EUROPE

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune looks at the chances of Turkey hosting the European Championship in 2016.

COPA LIBERTADORES

The tournament will not resume until over 2 weeks after the World Cup has finished.

Matches & Scores - Semifinals:

1st Leg

-Wed Jul 28

Internacional v Sao Paulo

Guadalajara v Universidad de Chile

2nd Leg

-Wed Aug 4

Universidad de Chile v Guadalajara

Sao Paulo v Internacional

ENDERS

The 2nd Annual Kicking & Screening Soccer Film Festival is about to get underway in New York City. Running Tue Jun 1 to Sat Jun 5, the line up looks pretty fantastic again this year.

Here is the official lineup:

-Tue Jun 1: "THE 12TH MAN"

Fifteen Minutes that Shook the World - directed by David Kirby

Because There Are Things You Never Forget - directed by Lucas Figueroa

Loucos de Futebol (Beyond Soccer) - directed by Halder Gomes

-Wed Jun 2: "WAR AND FOOTBALL"

The Last Yugoslavian Football Team - directed by Vuk Janic

Ana’s Playground - directed by Eric Howell

-Thu Jun 3: "THE MAN IN THE MIDDLE"

El Arbitro (The Ref) - directed by Justin Webster and Eriz Zapiriain

L’Arbitro (The Referee) - directed by Paolo Zucca

-Fri Jun 4: "THE POWER OF THE GAME"

Eine Andere Liga (Another League) - directed by Buket Alakus

-Sat Jun 5: "TO AFRICA, WITH LOVE"

The Game of Their Lives - directed by Daniel Gordon

Africa 10 - directed by Victor Buhler

After each night showings there will be an expert panel on hand to discuss the films and related topics. Panelists include: Simon Kuper, Vuk Janic, Eric Howell, Justin Webster, Adrian Healy, Ethan Zohn, Daniel Gordon and more.

Get all the details at the Kicking & Screening website.
