BOOTS for ABA’FANA

Football Supporters Kick Up Awareness and Fundraising Effort for South Africa

Chicago, Illinois USA (May 5, 2010): Two advertising executives united by their love for the “beautiful game” set out to experience the first-ever World Cup staged in South Africa together, but along the way found a greater adventure was ahead of them.

During the planning of their journey, they were introduced to the fastest growing township in South Africa, Khayelitsha, on the outskirts of Cape Town, via their local tour guide. They were introduced a local coach, with the football-appropriate name of Manchester, who struggles to find the simplest of gear for his team.

Within the shadows of the magnificent stadiums and world-class facilities built specifically to showcase and change perceptions of Africa and reposition the continent in a positive light with South Africa as the theater and Africa the stage, these young boys, literally don’t have shoes to kick about on rocky, pebble-covered pitches.

Like many townships in South Africa, it is economically challenged and although it attracts funding from international aid agencies, the outreach to those in these communities is sparse.

“There aren't many opportunities for developing countries to take on the world's super powers, but the World Cup provides that chance every four years. The energy and pride of those supporting their countries is a spectacle in and of itself. We’ve made a commitment after the last World Cup to make the trek every four years for as long as we’re able to, to share our love of the game with those less fortunate than us, ”says Alex Grant, an Account Executive at The Wall Street Journal, “I believe football (soccer) to be the world’s great equalizer.“

Alongside David Herman, Prime Minister of Public Relations of One United USA, they founded "Boots for Aba'fana" (Aba'fana means "the boys" in Zulu: http://facebook.com/bootsforabafana) with the goal of raising five thousand dollars before the jettison to Johannesburg on June 4, 2010.

Alex and David are looking to leverage their friends and colleagues in the digital space and their “friends in football” to help raise awareness, provide equipment and fund the purchase of a wheelchair to assist one of the mobility disabled boys while hopefully instilling hope for possibly the next generation of world class footballers to possibly come from this impoverished township. Or, if anything, bring a smile from those who love the game as much as we do.

The official slogan for the 2010 FIFA World Cup is “Ke Nako. Celebrate Africa's Humanity.”

(Ke Nako means simply, it’s time).

For more information or to make a donation, visit the Boots for Aba’fana Facebook page (http://facebook.com/bootsforabafana) or contact us directly:

Boots for Aba’fana

Attention: Alex Grant

449 W. Aldine Avenue, Apartment 3

Chicago, Illinois 60657

alexdgrant@hotmail.com

David Herman

One United USA

Prime Minister of Public Relations

Partner, Chief Marketing and Digital Brand Strategy Officer dherman@oneunitedusa.com

About Boots for Aba’fana:

A non-profit organization working to supply basic gear to young footballers in Khayelitsha, South Africa and is a 501(c)(3) organization that exists to secure private philanthropic support for football-related endeavors. The foundation hopes to raise funds from individuals, companies, foundations and organizations and invests and manages gifts in accordance with donors’ wishes.

About One United USA:

One United USA is the officially recognized branch for supporters of Manchester United in the United States of America.

For More Information:

http://www.facebook.com/bootsforabafana

http://www.nomvuyos-tours.co.za/township_info.shtml
