It's Day 272 of 2016.

Asking a favor: If you are someone who reads newspapers, magazines, websites etc on a regular basis please find a way to contribute to them financially. Its a real slog to run those enterprises these days. They can all use our support.

dN

Clint Dempsey will not return to the field in 2016. By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times.

dN

Minnesota United owner Bill McGuire talks about plans for 2017 in MLS and the new stadium in St Paul. [VIDEO] By WCCO-TV.

Pay very close attention at the 1:12 mark!

dN

American's in UEFA Champions League:

Tue: Dortmund v Real Madrid

Christian Pulisic - After Dort went behind in the 68th mibn, CP came on in the 73rd min and went right into the thick of a desperate attempt to tie the game - which they did in the 87th on a goal set up by PULISIC!

Wed: Monchengladbach v Barcelona

Fabian Johnson - Came on as a sub in the 48th min of a very close game. Gladbach lead until the 65th and then gave it away. They did hold the big three to zero goals though. No moral victory however. Those are for high school sports.

dN

UEFA Champions League - Big Teams on Matchday 2:

Bayern gets beat!!!

Man City gets held!!!

-Tue Sep 27

Dortmund 2-2 Real Madrid

Dinamo Zagreb 0-4 Juventus

-Wed Sep 18

Ludogorets 1-3 PSG

Arsenal 2-0 Basel

Gladbach 1-2 Barca

Celtic 3-3 Man City

Atleti 1-0 Bayern

dN

I don't think this could be put any clearer: You’d have to be crazy to manage the English national soccer team. By Simon Evans of the Washington Post.

dN

NASL Mid-Week 24 Schedule:

-Wed Sep 28

Jacksonville v Edmonton

Carolina v New York

Puerto Rico v Ft Lauderdale

Miami v Ottawa

NASL playoff race: (top 4 advance)

49 New York (6 games left)

45 Indy (6 games left)

43 Edmonton (7 games left)

36 Minnesota (6 games left)

----

35 Tampa Bay (7 games left)

33 Carolina (7 games left)

32 Miami (7 games left)

32 Fort Lauderdale (7 games left)

dN

A look at the Minnesota United roster and who might be headed with the club to MLS - The Midfielders. By Jeff Rueter and Alex Schieferdecker of Fifty Five One.

Here was their article covering The Goalkeepers.

Here was their article covering The Defenders.

dN

Bruno Labbadia, the head coach of American Bobby Wood's Hamburger team was fired yesterday. He has been replaced by Markus Gisdol.

The story of Labbadia, Hamburger, Gisdol and the soap opera of a club. Plus other Bundesliga stories. By Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian.

dN

As rumors fly, a Wales newspaper trying to find out who Bob Bradley is.

dN

I watched 3 GREAT new TV shows last night:

High Maintenance on HBO

Better Things on FX

Atlanta on FX

dN

Beaming: du Nord Music Mix Vol 98 (download + extract)

dN

I have been fascinated by the Israel-Palestine conflict most of my adult life. I think the best comic book ever written is Palestine by Joe Sacco. And here is a very interesting article about Israeli football teams who have set up shop in the occupied West Bank territory. The conflict resides on every level imaginable. By Peter Baker of the New York Times.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League - Matchday 5:

New York Red Bulls advance to the knock out rounds for the first time ever.

Darlington Nagbe scored on a perfect free kick in the 90th min to give Portland a MUST WIN decision in El Salvador.

This is how you win a game:

GOAL Portland Timbers, Darlington NAGBE No.6 | @CDDragonOficial @TimbersFC #SCCL #SoyAficionado pic.twitter.com/IIZGUCW28z

— THE CHAMPIONS (@TheChampions) September 28, 2016

Portland will host Saprissa on Oct 19 with advancement on the line. Sap will only need a draw to move on. Port must win that one.

Dallas plays at home tonight for the group lead with 2 games left to play.

Tigres can seal their group on the road tonight with a win.

Who has Advanced: Vancouver, Arabe Unido, NYRB

Big names that are out: Monterrey, Kansas City

-Tue Sep 27

Antigua GFC 0-0 New York Red Bulls

Dragon 1-2 Portland Timbers

-Wed Sep 28

Plaza Amador v Tigres UANL

Dallas v Suchitepequez

Vancouver Whitecaps v Central

Monterrey v Don Bosco

dN

Four midweek games in MLS Week 30:

(all have playoff implications)

-Wed Sep 28

Montreal v San Jose

DC v Columbus

Toronto v Orlando

Seattle v Chicago

Tyson Wahl of the Columbus Crew is being forced to retire due to ongoing concussion symptoms. This is very sad.

Can Gerardo Martinez be a success as head coach of Atlanta? Lots of questions need to be answered, but some feel the proper response is "Yes." By Paul Tenorio of Four Four Two.

Wade Barrett stepped in as interim head coach for Houston Dynamo several months ago and has not let the organization down. Will he be appointed as the full time replacement? By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

The Bird Is The Word
