Comin' atcha with a special early post due to the game time here in the USA. 1:30pm CT kickoff

TEAM USA - EL EQUIPO DE TODOS

International friendly.

Match & Score:

-Tue Sep 6

Belgium v USA - 1:30pm CT on ESPN and ESPN3.com

Venue: King Baudouin Stadium - Brussels

US Soccer with a detailed preview of today's game in Belgium.

4 players were released from traveling to Belgium: Landon Donovan so he could play with his club LA on Monday, Fabian Johnson because he has not received his international clearance from FIFA, and then Teal Bunbury and Chris Pontius for undisclosed reasons. (Bunbury was not eligible to play for Kansas City on Monday due to red card suspension.)

3 players were added to the roster for the Belgium game: Kyle Beckerman, Steve Cherundolo and Clint Dempsey. Beckerman had played for Real Salt Lake on Saturday, and the other two had stayed in Europe to rest. Expect all 3 to see field time.

Mike Woitalla of Soccer America previews today's game.

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated with a preview of the game today.

Greg Seltzer of MLSsoccer.com previews today's match.

Ives Galarcep of Fox Soccer with a preview, and a look at how Clint Dempsey might be used.

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN previews.

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad with a match preview.

Yanks Abroad has quotes from head coach Jurgen Klinsmann.

John Godfrey of the New York Times looks at Clint Dempsey's potential role in this team.

Andrew Das of the New York Times sees Klinsmann's philosophy being all about confidence.

Brian Straus of Sporting News previews the game.

US soccer has a Q & A with Steve Cherundolo, about European experience.

US Soccer set up a Q & A with Brek Shea where readers asked the Q's.

US Soccer has a video interview with Jozy Altidore.

"I left at 11 a.m. from Salt Lake City and got to New York around 5:30. I had a flight from New York at 7:25 and got into Brussels this morning at 9 a.m. There was an absolute mob at customs. I got to the front and there was a driver waiting for me. I went right to practice put on some gear and went to work."

-Kyle Beckerman was the last player to join the team.

USA ROSTER

G:

Bill Hamid - DC United

Tim Howard - Everton

D:

Carlos Bocanegra - Rangers

Edgar Castillo - America

Timmy Chandler - Nurnberg

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover

Clarence Goodson - Brondby

Michael Orozco Fiscal - San Luis

Tim Ream - New York Red Bulls

Jonathan Spector - Birmingham

M:

Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake

Clint Dempsey - Fulham

Maurice Edu - Rangers

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht

Jeff Larentowicz - Colorado Rapids

Robbie Rogers - Columbus Crew

Brek Shea - Dallas

Jose Torres - Pachuca

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Jozy Altidore - AZ

BELGIUM ROSTER

G:

Thibaut Courtois - Atletico Madrid

Jean-Francois Gillet - Bologna

Simon Mignolet - Sunderland

D:

Toby Alderweireld - Amsterdam Ajax

Vincent Kompany - Manchester City

Nicolas Lombaerts - Zenit St Petersburg

Denis Odoi - Anderlecht

Jan Vertonghen - Amsterdam Ajax

M:

Marouane Fellaini - Everton

Eden Hazard - Lille Metropole

David Hubert - KRC Genk

Dries Mertens - PSV Eindhoven

Vadis Odjidja Ofoe - Club Brugge

Timmy Simons - Nurnberg

Jelle Van Damme - Standard Liege

Axel Witsel - Benfica

F:

Igor De Camargo - Borrusia Monchengladbach

Moussa Dembele - Fulham

Romelu Lukaku - Chelsea

Marvin Ogunjimi - KRC Genk

Bjorn Vleminckx - Club Brugge

Jelle Vossen - KRC Genk

The regular daily soccer news will follow this afternoon as usual.
