-Now that is more like it! USA 5-0 Norway. Taylor Twellman finally gets it going for Team USA with 3 goals. Chris Klein & Eddie Pope added the other two, in a completely, I mean ultra-completely, dominating performance that started early and did not let up. Norway looked about as inept as you possibly could. I would guess that possession was around 75%-25%, and I am not exaggerating for effect.

The starting 11 (and subs):

G: Kevin Hartman

D: Todd Dunivant, Jimmy Conrad, Eddie Pope, Frankie Hejduk

M: Kerry Zavagnin, Pat Noonan, Clint Dempsey, Landon Donovan

F: Josh Wolff, Taylor Twellman

Subs:

Nate Jaqua for Wolff in the 67th

Santino Quaranta for Dempsey in the 70th

Chris Klein for Noonan in the 77th

Ben Olsen for Zavagnin in the 79th

Brian Ching for Taylor Twellman in the 83rd

Ugo Ihemelu for Pope in the 83rd

Here are some press reports:

US Soccer - match report, photos and video

Yanks Abroad - match report

Soccer Times - match report and player ratings by Robert Wagman

American Soccer News - match report and player ratings by Llew Llewellyn

MLSnet - match report

So Cal Soccer News - match report and player ratings

Los Angeles Times - match report and Todd Dunivant profile by Grahame Jones

LA Daily News - match report and Clint Dempsey profile

Soccernet - player ratings and analysis by Andrea Canales

-Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald on USA youngster Josimer Altidore of Metrostars

-Glenn Davis of the Houston Chronicle on local boy Lance Watson and his chances of success in MLS.

-Joe Cannon is now going to stay with Colorado and sign a new contract extension rather than be shipped out before his current contract ends.

-Can you believe that Simon Elliot has started every match since he got to Fulham a few weeks ago. And he has looked decent. Plus he has been taking their free kicks and corner kicks. Who knew?!?!?!?!

-Rob Hughes chronicles the Prodigal Snorter's return to Liverpool: Fowler finally back in his love's embrace

-How are things going with the construction of the new stadium in Chicago, you ask? Check this out.

-Grahame Jones of the LA Times talks to Norwegian coach Age Hareide about the first USA World Cup opponent the Czech Republic who eliminated Norway from the competition.

-DC United gets to start fixing last years stumble, as their preseason begins this week. The unstoppable Steve Goff of the Washington Post has some words for us on the topic.

-Jeff Rusnack of the South Florida Sun Sentinel writes about the great Uruguayan writer Eduardo Galeano and Argentina's star midfielder Juan Roman Riquelme.

-Phil Ball writes one of his best columns in a long time and tells us that the Spanish tabloid papers are not as hate-filled as those in England. Sure they're still pretty nasty, but in a more clever way: Mind(less) games?

-Two wild rumors from Matchnight: Jay Jay Okocha to Chicago & Barcelona will tour USA next summer.

-African Cup of Nations action. Here are the scores and today’s games:

Friday:

Ghana 1-0 Senegal

Nigeria 2-0 Zimbabwe

Saturday - the final group matches:

Egypt 3-1 Cote D'Ivoire

Libya 0-0 Morocco

Sunday

Angola 3-2 Togo

Cameroon 2-0 Congo

Monday

Tunisia 0-3 Guinea

Zambia 1-0 South Africa

Tuesday

Nigeria v Senegal

Ghana v Zimbabwe

After Tuesday the best 8 teams start the knockout stages.

-Soccernet's The Insider on Newcastle coach Graeme Souness.

-More from the final round (La Primera Fase) of Copa Libertadores action. This is a two legged playoff for 12 teams to fill the last 6 spots for the group stages. Friday nights first leg score: Defensor Sporting 2-2 Independiente Santa Fe - for group B

All 12 will play the reverse legs this week (I will post that schedule Tuesday), and by Thursday night the groups will be set. Group play kicks off Feb 7.

-More news on St Pauli comes from our pal Dan G. He says the St Pauli fans are known for their staunch Anti-Fascist stand! I love this club more every day! Put your hands up for St Pauli, a lovely city!

-Results from some of the top American's in Europe from the weekend:

Kasey Keller and Monchengladbach were completely dominated 1-3 by leaders Bayern Munich. Several of us gathered to watch this match hoping to see something special. We were very disappointed by Gladbach performance. But we loved Roy Makaay's stunning goal for Bayern. He power-volleyed a long cross out of the air from 18 yards out that Keller had no chance to get. An awesome goal.

Oguchi Onyewu did his part, but the Standard Liege offense was stalled in a 0-0 draw with St Triuden who are one of the worst in Belgium.

Looks like Cory Gibbs may have found a new home in Holland with John O'Brien's squad ADO Den Haag.

Brad Friedel's Blackburn got crushed 4-2 by West Ham in the FA Cup.

Reading drew 1-1 with Birmingham in the FA Cup, but Convey and Hahnemann did not play.

Steve Cherundolo's team Hannover drew 1-1 with Hertha

PSV with DaMarcus Beasley playing 90, beat Den Haag 2-0

-The ugliest man in soccer, Jaap Stam, has left Milan today and signed with Ajax!

-Metrostars team President Alexi Lalas told Sports Business Daily that he thinks MSL should "Americanize" the sport, and one way to do that would be to make the goals bigger. Why does he have to says such garbage? Does he want the fans to hate him?

-Mexican Primera League scores this past weekend:

Veracruz 1-2 UAdeG Tecos

Cruz Azul 1-1 Atlas

Monterrey 1-0 Morelia

Guadalajara 2-2 UNAM Pumas

Sinaloa Dorados 1-1 UANL Tigres

Necaxa 1-0 Chiapas

San Luis 1-3 Toluca

America 2-3 Pachuca

Santos 3-4 Atlante

-It's the Fourth Round of the FA Cup in England this past weekend. Here's the scores:

Stoke 2-1 Walsall

Cheltenham 0-2 Newcastle

Coventry 1-1 Middlesbrough

Reading 1-1 Birmingham

Leicester 0-1 Southampton

Bolton 1-0 Arsenal

Aston Villa 3-1 Port Vale

Brentford 2-1 Sunderland

Man City 1-0 Wigan

Everton 1-1 Chelsea

Preston 1-1 Crystal Palace

West Ham 4-2 Blackburn

Colchester 3-1 Derby County

Charlton 2-1 Leyton Orient

Sunday

Portsmouth 1-2 Liverpool

Wolverhampton 0-3 Man United

All tie games are going to be replayed this coming weekend Feb 7 & 8

-I saw a headline in the English newspaper The Independent today: "Anelka claims top clubs are afraid to sign him". And he's is right, they are afraid to sign him. You know why? Cuz he's an idiot, of the highest order, and unless a player is or has been amazing in their career (ie. Roy Keene) no one is interested in spending all that money on an obvious question mark. So good luck to you Nicolas, you goofy malcontented bastard.

-Looks like MLS is gonna kick off season 11 with a rematch of the Cup final - Saturday April 1 it's New England at LA on ESPN2, Live at 10pm central time.

-LATE ADDITION: Our incredibly sharp-witted Minnesota coach Amos Magee checks in for a second time from his travels in Portugal.
