STARTERS

The tea leaves are telling us that Oguchi Onyewu is about to re-join his old coach Standard Liege boss, Michel Preud'homme at Twente in the Netherlands. The two were together at Standard in Belgium. We shall see if this shakes out?

dN

The Asian Cup starts tomorrow with hosts Qatar taking on Uzbekistan.

STORY OF THE DAY

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN on the chances of talented young MLSers who are not Americans gaining citizenship to play for the USA national team - Andy Najar, Danny Mwanga and Tony Tchani.

TEAM USA

The annual January training camp for young and out-of season players with national team potential begins tomorrow Tue Jan 4 in Carson CA and ends with a friendly game on Sat Jan 22 at the Home Depot Center.

dN

Scott French of ESPN LA on the first day of the camp.

Adam Serrano of Soccer By Ives also on the opening of camp.

dN

Official team blog

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES COMING UP THIS WEEKEND

Matches, Scores & Synopsis:

-Sun Jan 9

Manchester United v Liverpool - the old rivals meet in the FA Cup

Napoli v Juventus - #3 v #5 sees two teams desperately trying to stay in the race

Real Madrid v Villarreal - #2 v #3 and even though there is no chase for the 2nd spot, Villa would like bragging rights

HMMMMM, VERY INTERESTING

The buzz of moving the 2022 World Cup from June/July to January/February in Qatar continues to build, but none of it is official talk.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

If you were listening to Glenn Davis's radio show on Monday night, and lets be honest, if you weren't listening then you gotta be a little bit of an idiot, Jay DeMerit told us that he and buddy were in the middle of a road trip out to Vancouver, and that they had rented a Uhaul trailer that they left Wisconsin from EMPTY and he was going to buy his new furniture along the way. Yes, in small towns across the northwestern USA and southwestern Canada. DeMerit is brilliant!

WHY NOT!

Greg Seltzer of MLSsoccer.com gives us the latest on the adventures of Freddy Adu.

WHAT???

Peter Mallet of the Toronto Globe & Mail unearths the news that TFC's big bucks defensive midfielder Julian De Guzman blew out his knee in the final game of last season and has had surgery. No word on how long he will be out, and TFC is saying nothing.

dN

So first we get the debacle of Dwayne De Rosario turning up in Glasgow looking for a job with Celtic, and TFC claiming they know nothing about it, and now this with De Guzman. These are the team's two biggest players we are talking about here. And we were led believe that the owners had gotten rid of the no good weasels. I don't think so.

dN

Besides, how do you sell season tickets when your potential buys think that your star wants out and they overpaid got is badly hurt? Talk about buyer beware!

MLS/USA & RELATED RUMORS

Kenny Cooper to leave Germany and play for Portland?? Not a bad idea.

dN

Sky Sports is reporting that two UK teams are interested in Galaxy midfielder Chris Birchall.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

Jeff Bradley at ESPN comments on both of this weeks new head coaching hires - Robin Fraser at Chivas and Aron Winter at TFC.

dN

FIFA has $423K to US Soccer as compensation for domestic club players being used in the World Cup. By comparison the English FA got just under 6 Million.

-The money is supposed to trickle down directly to those clubs whose players were in the tournament.

-Do ya think any will get skimmed off the top?

-This explains the payments.

-And this is the exact breakdown of dollars for each federation.

CD CHIVAS USA

Nick Green of 100 Percent Soccer with lots of quotes from the new coaching tandem of Robin Fraser and Greg Vanney.

dN

Phil Collin of the LA Daily Mail on the hiring.

dN

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN sees Fraser as being the right man to improve this team.

DC UNITED

Former DCU midfielder Tiyiselani Shipalane has signed with South African (his homeland) second division team Pretoria University.

PORTLAND TIMBERS

Geoffrey Arnold of the Oregonian on new Timbs keeper Troy Perkins.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

The National Soccer Coaches Association of America next week will award head coach Sigi Schmid with their lifetime achievement award for his contributions to the game.

-While I think he is totally deserving of every award, I always wonder why they give it to people who are still active in their profession. Shouldn't think type of award be given after retirement?

dN

David Falk of the Examiner with an article on Sounders utility midfielder Brad Evans who missed almost all of last season due to injury.

TORONTO FC

All the usual suspects from the Toronto media chime in on the new management staff that was introduced on Thursday:

-John Molinaro of the CBC - Toronto FC names new coach, management team

-Paul Attfield of the Globe & Mail - Portents appear good for TFC

-Daniel Girard of the Star - New Toronto FC coach looks to striker-heavy style this season

VANCOUVER WHITECAPS FC

Bruce Constantineau of the Sun tries to fill us in on what the Caps might do with their first-overall selection in the SuperDraft.

USA U20 TEAM

The team is holding another training camp right now (until the 13th) as they get closer to World Cup qualifying (early April.) This camp will run Jan 2-13 in Ft Lauderdale FL.

dN

Soccer By Ives gives us a match report from a game the team played today against a select team of players from the region.

-The 10 outfield players were all changed at half time, with only the keeper seeing the whole game.

dN

Here is the roster.

G:

Cody Cropper - Ipswich Town

Zac MacMath - Maryland

Brian Sylvestre - Vancouver Whitecaps

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Estoril Praia

Greg Garza - Estoril Praia

Moises Hernandez - FC Dallas

Sacir Hot - Boston College

Sebastian Ibeagha - Duke

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Zarek Valentin - Akron

Korey Veeder - No team

Ethan White - DC United

M:

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Joe Gyau - Hoffenheim

Fabian Huerzeler - Bayern Munich

Sebastian Lletget - West Ham United

Alex Molano - Dinamo Zagreb

Moises Orozco - UANL Tigres

Dillon Powers - Notre Dame

Kelyn Rowe - UCLA

Conor Shanosky - DC United

Alex Zahavi - Maccabi Haifa

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Conor Doyle - Derby County

Omar Salgado - No team

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

SPAIN - Copa del Rey - Round of 16

Jozy Altidore - Villarreal - Thu Jan 6 on the bench but did not play as they won 4-2 v Valencia, and advance to the next round.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

FA Cup - 3rd Round

-Sat Jan 8

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - v Peterborough United

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - at Sheffield United

Mike Grella - Carlisle United - at Torquay United

Brad Guzan - Hull City - v Wigan

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - at Doncaster Rovers

Stuart Holden - Bolton - v York City

Tim Howard - Everton - at Scunthorpe United

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - v Peterborough United

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - at Sheffield United

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - at Torquay United

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - v Barnsley

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - v Leyton Orient

-Mon Jan 10

Conor Doyle - Derby County - at Crawley Town

-Tue Jan 11

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - v Hereford United/Lincoln City winner (game on Sat Jan 8)

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Coming Up:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Isaac Acuna - Queretaro - Fri Jan 7 v Tigres UANL

Daniel Antunez - Estudiantes Tecos - Fri Jan 7 at Cruz Azul

Jonathan Bornstein - Tigres UANL - Fri Jan 7 at Queretaro

Edgar Castillo - Puebla - Sun Jan 9 v Guadalajara

Herculez Gomez - Pachuca - Sun Jan 9 at America

Sonny Guadarrama - Atlante - Sat Jan 8 at Santos Laguna

Sammy Ochoa - Estudiantes Tecos - Fri Jan 7 at Cruz Azul

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - Sun Jan 9 at Puebla

Jose Torres - Pachuca - Sun Jan 9 at America

LIGA DE ASCENSO (2nd Div)

Joe Benny Corona - Tijuana - Fri Jan 7 at Universidad Guadalajara

Joaquin Hernandez - Indios - off this round

Marco Vidal - Leon - Sat Jan 8 v Atlante II

MEXICO

Mexico's 2011 Primera Clausura season kicks off on Thursday with Necaxa hosting Jaguares. Here is the full schedule for opening weekend.

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Jan 6

Necaxa v Chiapas Jaguares

-Fri Jan 7

Cruz Azul v Estudiantes Tecos

Queretaro v UANL Tigres

Monterrey v San Luis

-Sat Jan 8

Santos Laguna v Atlante

Atlas v Morelia

-Sun Jan 9

Toluca v UNAM Pumas

Puebla v Guadalajara

America v Pachuca

ENGLAND

Here are all the matches from the 3rd Round of the FA Cup which goes down this weekend.

SPAIN

COPA DEL REY

Villarreal, Almeria, Atletico Madrid, Real Betis & Real Madrid join Coruna, Sevilla, and Barca in advancing to the Quarterfinals.

And a juicy Madrid derby was drawn for the next round!

Round of 16

Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Wed Jan 5

Deportivo La Coruna 3-1 Cordoba - DLC advances 4-2 on aggregate.

Athletic Bilbao 1-1 Barcelona - series ends tied 1-1, so Bar advances on the away goal tie breaker.

Malaga 0-3 Sevilla - Sev advances 8-3 on aggregate.

-Thu Jan 6

Villarreal 4-2 Valencia - Vil advances 4-2 on aggregate.

Mallorca 3-4 Almeria - Alm advances 8-6 on aggregate.

Espanyol 1-1 Atletico Madrid - AM advances 2-1 on aggregate.

Getafe 1-3 Real Betis - RB advances 4-3 on aggregate.

Levante 2-0 Real Madrid - RM advances 8-2 on aggregate.

Quarterfinals

1st Leg

-Week of Jan 10

Villarreal v Sevilla

Barcelona v Real Betis

Almeria v Deportivo la Coruna

Real Madrid v Atletico Madrid

-2nd Leg games the following week

ITALY

du Nord recap:

A full round of games today saw first place Milan eek out a road win giving them a 5 point cushion now. Inter and new head coach Leonardo rolled over then #2, now #3 Napoli 3-1. Lazio moved back into 2nd with a road draw. Roma got a good win, but Juve got romped at home by Parma.

BRAZIL

This time of year in Brazil when teams are preparing for their state championships. Each of the 26 states has its own season, instead of the whole country having a Clausura type season. The most hotly contested are always the Paulista, consisting of teams from the state of Sao Paulo and the Carioca involving the teams from Rio de Janeiro.

dN

And then in February the Copa do Brasil begins. The national knockout competition. In case you are dying to know, here are those match ups.

-Teams who qualify for Copa Libertadores do not take part in this tournament.

ASIA

The Asian Cup

Jan 7-29

Qatar

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Jan 7

Qatar v Uzbekistan

-Sat Jan 8

Kuwait v China

-Sun Jan 9

Japan v Jordan

Saudi Arabia v Syria

-Mon Jan 10

India v Australia

S Korea v Bahrain

-Tue Jan 11

N Korea v UAE

Iraq v Iran

-Wed Jan 12

Uzbekistan v Kuwait

China v Qatar

-Thu Jan 13

Jordan v Saudi Arabia

Syria v Japan

-Fri Jan 14

Australia v S Korea

Bahrain v India

-Sat Jan 15

Iran v N Korea

UAE v Iraq

-Sun Jan 16

China v Uzbekistan

Qatar v Kuwait

-Mon Jan 17

Jordan v Syria

Saudi Arabia v Japan

-Tue Jan 18

Australia v Bahrain

S Korea v India

-Wed Jan 19

UAE v Iran

Iraq v N Korea
