Dear leader Brucio is off to New York city and environs and will make his first match at Red Bull Arena in Harrion, NJ this weekend when the Portland Timbers make their visit. So, you're stuck with me, Joe the Curmudgeon, for a few days.

BOB BRADLEY TO COACH EGYPT NATIONAL TEAM.

At least, I think so. There seems to be conflicting reports today regarding the Former US Men's National Team coach saying "yes, he's in" to "hmm, maybe" to "wait, not sure". I think it will happen and it will be great for Bob. He's a good guy. I wonder if he can get son Michael an Egyptian passport? I'd also like to see Bob grow a beard and wear traditional Egyptian garb on the sidelines. Can't wait for the next match-up of Egypt v Algeria.

MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER

Let's recap last nights MLS matches, shall we:

Wednesday night saw three matches on the MLS Slate:

Chivas USA visited DC United and came away with a 2-2 draw. United were up 2-nil on goals by De Rosario (39') and Ethan White (47')until Juan Pablo Angel woke up and netted two for the baby goats at 57' 69'. Mmm. Cabrito. There was a penalty called in extra time against Chivas USA that was taken by De Ro and stuffed by Chivas USA's Dan Kennedy, preserving the draw.

Real Salt Lake traveled to Harrison, NJ to take on the Red Bulls and took a fast lead when Saborio scored in the 7th minute. RSL added salt to the wound with a pair from Fabian Espindola in the 11th and 21st. NYRB would continue to fight amongst themselves the rest of the night but Joel Lindpere did score one for the home side in the 69th to make the final score 3-1 to RSL. That Jason Kreis is some coach. He didn't even have Kyle Beckerman and probably could've beaten NYRB with the RSL Reserves.

Rafa Marquez apparently complained about his teammates today, but during the match the NYRB announcers seemed to note that it was Rafa that was not playing well. Tempers are flaring big-time in the #1 media market and perhaps a plucky Timbers side will inflict some real pain on the underperforming Red Bulls when Brucio is in the stands. I sure hope there are more people in the stands than the RSL match. It sounds loud, but looks empty. Sad.

The final Wednesday match saw San Jose travel up to Portland where another packed house saw the Timbers go up early on a smart goal by Kenny FrankenCooper just nine minutes in. Khari Stephenson made a nice shot and slotted the ball along a narrow opening and found the equalizer for the Earthquakes in minute 70. 1-1 is how that match ended.

Friday night sees Sporting Kansas City host the Philadelphia Union in Fox Soccer's Soccer Night in America telecast. Kickoff is set for 8:30 eastern time. Interesting matches on Saturday include LA Galaxy at Columbus, RSL at DC United and Seattle at Vancouver...

INTERNATIONAL FOOTY

From the twitter account of @IanDarkeESPN, we are reminded that Man City take on Everton Saturday morning at 7:30am EDT on ESPN2. Also, the program should include a "new slant on what makes Clint Dempsey tick..."

I'm tapped out today, so enjoy the short read. Tomorrow is another day... Cheers.
