It's Day 231 of 2016.

Giveaway Sweepstakes Time:

I have been asking some soccer questions and compiling answers from you the reader throughout the week in order to give away a customized @ESPNDeportes soccer jersey with "du Nord" on the back. Today is the last day of questions.

One winner will be drawn from all the entries posted on this here du Nord Futbol blog, along with my Twitter, Facebook and Instagram accounts.

Final Question: What is that one stadium in the world where you want to go see a game?

dN

Fellow Dark Clouds,

This is what its all about.

Support your club at every corner.

By any name.

In any league.

Stand up and be proudly counted.

This is a huge moment for Minnesota soccer.

Just think back to all the times (and there have been many) when we

didn't even know if we would have a team again.

For the past 3 seasons we have had that peace of mind, and its about

to get a lot bigger and way better.

Not to mention the new stadium that's on the way.

Oh Yeah!

Be Here Now.

Fri Aug 19

dN

Minnesota got a home win last night on goals by Ben Speas and Christian Ramirez.

Game highlights [VIDEO]

On the first goal we saw a classic blunder from TBR defense and Speas made them pay.

That was the most ordinary TBR team I have ever seen. Almost toothless.

dN

NASL Week 18 - mid-week matches:

-Wed Aug 17

Minnesota 2-0 Tampa Bay

Jacksonville 1-1 Fort Lauderdale

NASL Week 18 - Coming up:

-Sat Aug 20

Jacksonville v Minnesota

Fort Lauderdale v Ottawa

Carolina v Indy

Puerto Rico v Cosmos

Tampa Bay v Edmonton

OKC v Miami

dN

Minnesota-American goalkeeper Cody Cropper has signed with New England Revolution. He was with MK Dons last season, and Southampton for a few years before that. In the offseason he had shoulder surgery (I believe) and did his rehab with the Minnesota United medical/training team.

dN

Meet the 1981 Minnesota Kicks:

Today's #NASLKitoftheDay the 1981 #MinnesotaKicks Away Kit. #MinnesotaSoccer #NASL pic.twitter.com/r8FRBkhqpJ

— Classic NASL (@ClassicNASL) August 18, 2016

dN

In Copa MX on Wed night we saw several Americans in action and inaction:

For Leon it was a 1-1 tie at Celaya with William Yarbrough on the bench, and NO sign of Miguel Ibarra whatsoever.

Tijuana was flying the Stars + Stripes as usual with 20 year old Amando Moreno getting the start and scoring in a 1-1 tie v Lobos BUAP. Paul Arriola and John Requejo both went the full 90, while 17 year old Brandon Vazquez came on in the 60th as a sub for Moreno.

dN

Big Matches in MLS Week 24

-Sat Aug 20

New York City v LA Galaxy

Philadelphia Union v Toronto

Real Salt Lake v Dallas

-Sun Aug 21

Seattle Sounders v Portland Timbers

dN

Some atrocious TV ratings for MLS lately. There are no excuses. By Collin Werner of World Soccer Talk.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League group stage Matchday 2 schedule:

Monterrey was stunned at home, losing 2-3 to Arabe Unido of Panama!

Whereas Tigres went on the road and rolled to a 1-3 win in Costa Rica.

Pumas is the last big team to play this week, tonight in Honduras.

Viewing options: Univision Deportes and Facebook.

-Wed Aug 17

Monterrey (MEX) 2-3 Arabe Unido (PAN)

Herediano (CR) 1-3 Tigres UANL (MEX)

-Thu Aug 18

Suchitepequez (GUA) v Real Esteli (NIC)

Pumas UNAM (MEX) v Progreso (HON)

Saprissa (CR) v Dragon (SAL)

Matchday 3 is coming next week with Vancouver hosting Kansas City and many more.

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

Up Next - Fri Aug 19 v Troyes

dN

The new La Liga season begins on Fri Aug 19, but the main action starts on Sat Aug 20 with Barcelona v Real Betis. And then on Sun Aug 21 its Real Sociedad v Real Madrid, and Atletico Madrid v Deportivo Alaves.

dN

The new Serie A season begins this weekend with defending champions Juventus hosting Fiorentina on Sat Aug 20 in the weekends biggest match.

A season preview, but is there anything anything to discuss beyond total Juve domination? by Paolo Bandini of the Guardian.

dN

Olympic Tournament Finals:

Women's

-Fri Aug 19

Sweden v Germany

Men's

-Sat Aug 20

Brazil v Germany

The Bird Is The Word
