It's Day 330 of 2016.

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying:

-Tue Nov 15

Costa Rica v USA - Estadio Nacional, San Jose - 8:00pm CT on beIN Sports

dN

Tonight is not a must win for the USMNT. That only happens when you will be eliminated if you don't win. But this game his huge. And the odds are very very very long.

Head coach Jurgen Klinsmann talks to a handful of journalists down in Costa Rica late yesterday. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illusrated.

Its interesting that Klinsmann criticizes Bradley and Jones for not defending good enough, but says their best qualities are when they go forward and attack, and that's what he wants them to do, attack. Not defend?

Set piece defending (and other things) is killing the USMNT. By Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

Time to bust out my Iron Skillet Training Method. Fans come to training. 23 of them are picked and handed a cast iron skillet. 1 for each player on both sides of the ball and 1 for the coach. Every time someone makes a mistake the assigned fan clobbers them over the head with the iron skillet. It does not take long to fix problems with my proven and trademarked training system.

No surprise here but Klinsmann and Michael Bradley completely disagree on what position suits Bradley's talent best. By Ives Galarcep of Goal.com

The Bobby Wood and Jozy Altidore connection. By Sam Borden of the New York Times.

Some really interesting stuff here about Woods early days in Germany - not good.

Why is it so hard to play in places like Costa Rica around CONCACAF. The USA players give their input. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

KISS - will the USA Keep It Simple Stupid in Costa Rica? By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

Pregame analytic prognostication. By Matt Doyle of MLSsoccer.

Tim Howard's abductor muscle injury is so bad that he will need surgery to repair it. Damn.

dN

USA Roster:

G

Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough

Ethan Horvath - Molde

William Yarbrough - Leon

D

Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City

Steve Birnbaum - DC United

John Brooks - Hertha Berlin

Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham

Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt

Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca

Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach

Michael Orozco - Tijuana

DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M

Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union

Michael Bradley - Toronto

Lynden Gooch - Sunderland

Julian Green - Bayern Munich

Jermaine Jones - Colorado Rapids

Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls

Christian Pulisic - Dortmund

Caleb Stanko - Vaduz

Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F

Jozy Altidore - Toronto

Alan Gordon - LA Galaxy

Aron Johannsson - Werder Bremen

Bobby Wood - Hamburger

dN

The Hex - CONCACAF World Cup qualifying schedule:

Matchday 2

-Tue Nov 15

Costa Rica v USA - 8:00pm CT on beIN Sports

Honduras v Trinidad + Tobago - 4:00pm CT

Panama v Mexico - 8:00pm CT

Standings

(1 of 10 games played)

3 Costa Rica (+2)

3 Mexico (+1)

3 Panama (+1)

---

0 USA (-1)

---

0 Honduras (-1)

0 T+T (-2)

Matchdays 3 + 4 will be held on Fri Mar 24 and Tue Mar 28.

dN

Costa Rica roster:

G:

Leonel Moreira - Herediano

Keylor Navas - Real Madrid

Patrick Pemberton - Alajuelense

D:

Johnny Acosta - Herediano

Leonardo Gonzalez - Herediano

Allan Miranda - Herediano

Ronald Matarrita - New York City

Bryan Oviedo - Everton

Jose Salvatierra - Alajuelense

Michael Umana - Alajuelense

Kendall Waston - Vancouver Whitecaps

M:

Randall Azofeifa - Herediano

Cristian Bolanos - Vancouver Whitecaps

Celso Borges - Deportivo la Coruna

David Guzman - Saprissa

Yeltsin Tejeda - Lausanne

Johan Venegas - Montreal Impact

Rodney Wallace - Sport Recife

F:

Joel Campbell - Sporting CP

Ariel Rodriguez - Bangkok Glass

Bryan Ruiz - Sporting CP

Marco Urena - Brondby

dN

We are hearing more from Bob Bradley in the past few months than we ever heard in all his previous years combined. Talking about Swansea today and USA yesterday and today. By Martin Rogers of USA Today.

dN

Steven Gerrard has left the LA Galaxy. No surprise there. He did very little for the team.

dN

CONMEBOL World Cup qualifying:

-Matchday 12

-Tue Nov 15

Ecuador v Venezuela

Bolivia v Paraguay

Chile v Uruguay

Argentina v Colombia

Peru v Brazil

Standings

(11 of 18 games played)

24 Brazil

23 Uruguay

18 Colombia

17 Ecuador

-----

17 Chile

-----

16 Argentina

15 Paraguay

14 Peru

5 Venezuela

4 Bolivia

The Bird Is The Word
