It's Day 277 of 2016.

Bob goes to the Premiership! Cuz they could use our help!

Bob Bradley lands in the Premiership.

A photo posted by brucio mcguire (@brucedunord) on Oct 3, 2016 at 5:33am PDT

Bradley is the first American to be named Manager of a team in the English Premier League.

Newspapers from Wales react to the Bradley news:

South Wales Evening Post

Wales Online

Bradley is well versed in proving the doubters wrong. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

Its a whole new Tracker -

The Bob Bradley + Swansea City Tracker:

Standings - 17th place - +3 goal differential above relegation zone

Up Next - Sat Oct 15 at Arsenal

dN

Alexi Lalas took some time to discuss the path Minnesota United will take in to MLS next season, during Sunday's Vancouver v Seattle game. [VIDEO] From Fox Soccer.

dN

One of my grandest predictions for MLS 2016 season was that Vancouver was going to win MLS Cup. That's worked out quite well. They were eliminated from the playoffs on Sunday night with 2 games left to play.

dN

USMNT plays in Cuba on Friday afternoon.

Here is the Roster:

G: David Bingham - San Jose Earthquakes, Ethan Horvath - Molde, William Yarbrough - Leon

D: Steve Birnbaum - DC United, John Brooks - Hertha Berlin, Geoff Cameron - Stoke City, Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Fabian Johnson - Moenchengladbach, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana), Michael Bradley - Toronto, Lynden Gooch - Sunderland, Perry Kitchen - Heart Of Midlothian, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Christian Pulisic - Dortmund, Danny Williams - Reading

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Julian Green - Bayern Munich, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes, Bobby Wood - Hamburger

Alejandro Bedoya has been removed from the roster due to injury.

The feeling is that some of these players will leave after this game and others will be brought in. We'll see.

A Q + A with Perry Kitchen. By Clemente Lisi of the US Soccer Players Assoc.

dN

American defender Tim Ream went the full 90 and scored for Fulham in a 2-1 loss at QPR.

dN

American Bobby Wood has lost his head coach in Germany. Hamburger fired Bruno Labbadia and his entire staff on Sunday. No word on the replacement yet.

dN

NWSL Playoffs - Semifinal schedule:

-Fri Sep 30

Washington Spirit 2-1 Chicago Red Stars

-Sun Oct 2

Portland Thorns 3-4 Western New York Flash

Finals schedule:

-Oct 9

Washington Spirit v Western New York Flash - in Houston at 4pm CT on FS1

dN

USL Playoffs - Round of 16 schedule:

WEST

-Fri Sep 30

Swope Park Rangers 3-0 LA Galaxy II

Colorado Springs Switchbacks 1-2 Vancouver Whitecaps 2

-Sat Oct 1

Sacramento Republic 0-0 Orange County Blues

Rio Grande Valley Toros 2-3 Oklahoma City Energy

EAST

-Sat Oct 1

Rochester Rhinos 3-1 Charlotte Independence

-Sun Oct 2

New York Red Bulls II 4-0 Orlando City B

Cincinnati 1-2 Charleston Battery

Louisville 2-0 Richmond Kickers

Quarterfinals schedule:

WEST

-Sat Oct 8

Vancouver Whitecaps 2 v Oklahoma City Energy

-Sun Oct 9

Swope Park Rangers v Orange County Blues

EAST

-Fri Oct 7

New York Red Bulls II v Rochester Rhinos

-Sat Oct 8

Louisville v Charleston Battery

dN

My Minnesota United Notes:

Lost to Jacksonville at home 0-1.

I refuse to link to the highlights.

4 losses in a row for the Loons. One of the worst streaks in 27 years.

The only thing keeping the team in 4th place (And the final playoff position) is goal differential.

To make matters worse the win was only the 2nd road win EVER for Jacksonville.

Three Minnesota players need to be commended for their effort and quality: Jamie Watson, Ibson, and Brent Kallman. All were good.

Two players need to be called on their shitty play, especially during the goal: Damien Lowe gave up a really stupid foul near the goal in the 87th min that did not need to be committed. (Lowe had a half dozen of those in this game.) Then Kevin Venegas went to sleep on the ensuing free kick and left his man unmarked 4 yards from goal, and that guy just turned and put the loose ball into the open net. (Venegas also had terrible free/corner kicks and crosses all game long.)

No one else who played deserves a pat on the back either, for that matter.

Its seriously Iron Skillet Time for this team. NOW OR NEVER. Odds in Vegas favor NEVER.

dN

NASL Week 24 results:

New York has clinched a top 4 finish and a playoff spot.

Only 2 playoff places now remain, cuz Indy won Spring and is already in.

Minnesota holds the last playoff spot via goal differential over Tampa and Miami.

-Sat Oct 1

Tampa Bay 1-1 Miami

Minnesota 0-1 Jacksonville

-Sun Oct 2

Ottawa 1-2 Puerto Rico

Edmonton 2-1 Indy

New York 2-0 Ft Lauderdale

OKC 1-1 Carolina

Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#55 New York (4 games left)

47 Edmonton (5 games left)

*45 Indy (5 games left)

36 Minnesota (+4 GD) (5 games left)

----

36 Tampa Bay (+2 GD) (6 games left)

36 Miami (+1 GD) (5 games left)

34 Carolina (-11 GD) (5 games left)

*Won Spring Season, automatically in playoffs

#Clinch a top 4 finish and a playoff spot

NASL Week 25 Schedule:

-Wed Oct 5

Tampa Bay v Minnesota

-Sat Oct 8

Jacksonville v Indy

Carolina v Ft Lauderdale

Puerto Rico v Minnesota

Miami v OKC

-Sun Oct 9

Ottawa v New York

Edmonton v Tampa Bay

dN

The MLS salaries are spreading the distance between and haves and the have-nots that is waaaaay beyond other sports leagues. By Kevin Baxter of the LA Times.

dN

Biggest games in MLS for Week 30 results:

Dax McCarty is back! And scoring on headers off set pieces for the Red Bulls.

Philly + KC can't seem to get a win streak going and are suddenly hurting badly and in 6th place.

Dallas is pulling away from the pack in the Supporters Shield race.

Toronto + LA are both stumbling at the wrong time. Upturns in quality are needed and fast.

DC is suddenly on fire like they haven't been in a decade or more.

Colorado was expected to fade as the season went on, but they are not going away and the only team with a legit chance of catching Dallas.

Last years two finalists Portland and Columbus find themselves under water and currently OUT of the playoffs.

Seattle's change of fortune sees them in an unrelenting run of form with win after win pushing them up to 5th place in the West.

Orlando + Vancouver have been eliminated from the playoff chase.

The only analysis you need to read for Week 30. By Matt Doyle of MLSsoccer.

Advanced: Dallas, Red Bulls, NYC, Colorado, Toronto, LA. (6 spots remain)

Eliminated: Chicago, Houston, Orlando, Vancouver.

-Sat Oct 1

Red Bulls 3-2 Philadelphia

Toronto 1-2 DC

Colorado 1-0 Portland

Dallas 1-0 LA

-Sun Oct 2

Vancouver 1-2 Seattle

Race for 6th Place in MLS: [NO GAMES UNTIL WED OCT 12]

EAST

44 Montreal (2 games left)

43 DC (2 games left)

42 Philadelphia (2 games left)

-----

39 New England (2 games left)

35 Columbus (3 games left)

OUT - 35 Orlando (2 games left)

WEST

45 Salt Lake (2 games left)

44 Seattle (3 games left)

43 Kansas City (2 games left)

-----

41 Portland (2 games left)

37 San Jose (3 games left)

MLS Supporters Shield:

LA and Toronto have both been eliminated from the Shield race.

Wins is 1st tie breaker and goal differential is 2nd.

56 Dallas (2 games left) (1.75 ppg) (16 wins) (+9 gd)

51 New York Red Bulls (2 games left) (1.59 ppg) (14 wins) (+14 gd)

51 New York City (2 games left) (1.59 ppg) (14 wins) (+4 gd)

51 Colorado (4 games left) (1.70 ppg) (13 wins) (+6 gd)

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Results - Fri Sep 30 W 1-0 v Atlas

Standings - 1st Place, 4 point lead

Up Next - Sat Oct 15 at America

dN

Bundesliga Matchday 6: Top five talking points. From Deutsche Welle.

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

dN

Lets end today with something truly idiotic and also very funny....

This morning a bunch of us Minnesota United fans started to joke Tweet that Minnesota was going to hire Sam Allardyce as their next head coach. We all went round and round, pushing each others dumb tweets into a bigger and bigger frenzy. Then all of a sudden some soccer press started asking questions, and before you can say, "Big Sam Loves Bags Of Cash," NBC Sports ran this - Report: Allardyce heading to MLS? Minnesota United?

Twin Cities weekly paper City Pages hopped on the band wagon too. (Then later tried to back track.)

Doesn't get any better or worse than that.

The Bird Is The Word
