Gonna keep this short and sweet today my friends!

TEAM USA WORLD CUP 2010

Let us begin with a prayer: Oh Ghost of Joe Gaetjens, please be with our boys on Saturday and lead us to glory!!!

dN

Match & Score:

-Sat Jun 12

USA v England - 1:30pm Central on ABC

Venue: Royal Bafokeng Stadium - Rustenburg

dN

Jozy Altidore will start! The coach said so.

dN

Last summer in Rustenburg where Saturday's match will take place, the USA drilled African champions Egypt 3-0 to turn around the Confederations Cup and propell them to the historic win over Spain a few days later!

dN

8000 Americans bought tickets to the game tomorrow, compared to 6000 English. But we don't know how many English living in America bought tickets. Who will have the fervent fans. I think we will shock them.

dN

German legend Karl Heinz Granitza picks the USA over England. (thanks to Joel for the cool link)

dN

US Soccer with tons of details and stats previewing the big USA v England game. Some really good stuff here.

dN

The New York Times pits 2 of their writers in a point/counterpoint USA v England debate - video.

dN

The NY Times also has ESPN authors David Hirshey and Roger Bennett give their thoughts on the game at hand.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America tells us about our boys the day before they get the tournament started.

dN

Paul Kennedy also of Soccer America looks at the current level of media coverage in America and describes the difference from prior tournaments.

dN

Filip Bondy from the New York Daily News cheap shots the English in their own London Evening Standard. Hilarious, and completely true. (Thanks to our old friend Michael for this brilliant link.)

dN

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated previews.

dN

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN previews as well!

dN

Ives Galarcep of Soccer by Ives previews too.

dN

The AP with words from Tim Howard. Via Sports Illustrated.

dN

Lawrence Donegan of the Guardian wonders if us Americans will get excited about this game and tournament.

dN

The AP reports that the USA got held up on the way to training by elephants in the road! Oh yeah! Via Soccernet.

dN

I got to contribute some of my own World Cup predictions to Marc Ecko's Complex magazine. Loads of other internet soccer bloggers give their opinion too.

dN

I will be co-hosting a live web chat during the Slovenia v Algeria game on Sun morning at Sports Myriad - If you are watching the game or not please join us!

dN

Sadly on the radio today I disgraced myself and my country when I predicted England 2-1 USA. I can only hope that I eat my words, and have to beg your forgiveness!

WORLD CUP VIEWING

-Sat Jun 12

S Korea v Greece - 6:30am Central - Nelson Mandela Bay/Port Elizabeth

Argentina v Nigeria - 9:00am Central - Johannesburg - JEP

England v USA - 1:30pm Central - Rustenburg

-Sun Jun 13

Algeria v Slovenia - 6:30am Central - Polokwane

Serbia v Ghana - 9:00am Central - Tshwane/Pretoria

Germany v Australia - 1:30pm Central - Durban

-Mon Jun 14

Netherlands v Denmark - 6:30am Central - Johannesburg - JSC

Japan v Cameroon - 9:00am Central - Mangaung/Bloemfontein

Italy v Paraguay - 1:30pm Central - Cape Town

LESSER KNOWN WORLD CUPPERS TO WATCH FOR

Our panel of Friends-In-Football who contributed their World Cup predictions here on du NOrd this week, just scroll back through the week and read all the great contributions, answered a question about "surprise players" and I thought it would be good to collect those players names and give them too you in one nice neat list.

Some great players to watch for:

Pablo Aguilar - Argentina (Newell's Old Boys)

Kwadwo Asamoah - Ghana (Udinese)

Lucas Barrios - Paraguay (Dortmund)

Michel Bastos - Brazil (Lyon)

Nicklas Bendtner - Denmark (Arsenal)

Cuauhtemoc Blanco - Mexico (Veracruz)

Michael Bradley - USA (Monchengladbach)

Edson Buddle - USA (Los Angeles Galaxy)

Giorgio Chiellini - Italy (Juventus)

Landon Donovan - USA (Los Angeles Galaxy)

Seydou Doumbia - Ivory Coast (BSC Young Boys)

Benny Feilheiber - USA (Aarhus)

Robbie Findley - USA (Real Salt Lake)

Gervinho - Ivory Coast (Lille)

Herculez Gomez - USA (Pachuca)

Yoann Gourcuff - France (Bordeaux)

Jonas Gutierrez - Argentina (Newcastle)

Marek Hamsik - Slovakia (Napoli)

Javier Hernandez - Mexico (Manchester United)

Gonzalo Higuan - Argentina (Real Madrid)

Stuart Holden - USA (Bolton)

Keisuke Honda - Japan (CSKA Moscow)

Soloman Kalou - Ivory Coast (Chelsea)

Tae-Se Jong - North Korea (Kawasaki Frontale)

Sami Khedira - Germany (Stuttgart)

Milos Krasic - Serbia (CSKA Moscow)

Chung-Yong Lee - South Korea (Bolton)

Aaron Lennon - England (Tottenham)

Tony Lochhead - New Zealand (Wellington Phoenix)

Nicolas Lodeiro - Uruguay (Ajax)

Marko Marin - Germany (Werder Bremen)

Juan Mata - Spain (Valencia)

Diego Milito - Argentina (Inter Milan)

James Milner - England (Aston Villa)

Teko Modise - South Africa (Orlando Pirates)

Thomas Muller - Germany (Bayern Munich)

Jesus Navas - Spain (Sevilla)

Blaise N'Kufo - Switzerland (Twente)

Mesut Ozil - Germany (Werder Bremen)

Steven Pienaar - South Africa (Everton)

Wayne Rooney - England (Manchester United)

Alexis Sanchez - Chile (Udinese)

Roque Santa Cruz - Paraguay (Manchester City)

Giovani Dos Santos - Mexico (Galatasaray)

Wesley Sneijder - Netherlands (Inter Milan)

Alexandre Song - Cameroon (Arsenal)

Luis Suarez - Uruguay (Ajax)

Humberto Suazo - Chile (Real Zaragoza)

Zoran Tosic - Serbia (Manchster United)

Robin van Persie - Netherlands (Arsenal)

Carlos Vela - Mexico (Arsenal)

Karim Ziani - Algeria (Wolfsburg)

MLS

Just a couple of notes on the 2 MLS games last night:

Matches y Scores:

-Thu Jun 10

Kansas City Wizards 2-0 Philadelphia Union - KCW goals by Kei Kamara & Graham Zusi.

Venue: CommunityAmerica Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Attendance: 10,176

Seattle Sounders FC 2-3 DC United - SS goals by James Riley & Fredy Montero. DCU goals all by Chris Pontius.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 36,146

dN

Seattle fans are amazing! Another packed house. It doesn't matter the day, the opponent, the competition, the weather. I am jealous and proud of you all.

dN

KC got a huge must needed win. A loss to the expansion Union would have been a disasterous cap to this first part of a disappointing season.

-I see KC coach Vermes took my advice and put Josh Wolff back up top. See!

-A stonkin' goal by Special K.

-Philly's right back got torched for both goals! Oof.

-What did you think of the Union wearing all gold?

-PU centerback Michael Orozco Piscal had a real stinker of a game earning 2 yellow cards in the first half. See ya.

-Video highlights from MLS.

dN

Chris Pontius bags 3 for DC! Simply WOW!. And then there was Seattle's come back. I know they came up short, but they showed us something that could help them out down the stretch.

-How in the world did DC pull that off. They got beat in every aspect of the game except the ONLY one that counts - goals. Great job.

-2 of Pontius' 3 goals came off Seattle blunders, especially #2. Have you ever seen Kasey Keller muff one like that?

-Seattle came back from dead with 2 late goals, one in the 90th minute and the other in stoppage time. Wow!

-Video highlights from MLS.

USSF DIVISION 2

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Jun 12

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Montreal Impact

Rochester Rhinos v Crystal Palace Baltimore

Miami FC Blues v Portland Timbers

Puerto Rico Islanders v AC St Louis

Austin Aztex v Vancouver Whitecaps

dN

Standings (As of Thu Jun 10):

24 Austin - 11 played

18 Tampa Bay - 10 played

16 Vancouver - 10 played

15 Rochester - 10 played

14 Minnesota - 13 played

13 Carolina - 9 played

13 Portland - 10 played

12 Montreal - 9 played

11 Baltimore - 10 played

10 Miami - 10 played

9 Puerto Rico - 7 played

4 St Louis - 9 played

dN

Standings base on Points Per Game: [CORRECTED]

2.18 Austin

1.80 Tampa Bay

1.60 Vancouver

1.50 Rochester

1.44 Carolina

1.33 Montreal

1.30 Portland

1.29 Puerto Rico

1.10 Baltimore

1.08 Minnesota

1.00 Miami

0.44 St Louis

FINALLY

I got to see the movie Pelada the other night and it was fantastic. Highly highly highly recommended. And I got to meet the co-star Gwendolyn Oxenham, who I have no doubt would have been swept away with my handsome looks and considerable charm had she not gotten married just last Saturday to co-star Luke Boughen. Oh well!

-Buy your copy direct from the filmmakers right here. Again highly recommended.
