It’s not often that your non-soccer friends offer up

astonishing soccer reading advice, but just a few weeks ago, that happened to

me. “Graham” Cory said as we sat on his couch watching an old show, “I have a

book you need to read. It was the first book to make me understand why people

all over the world love and enjoy soccer.”

Two weeks later he remembered which pile the book was buried

under, and handed me a tattered, green, paperback book written by a Uruguayan man

named Eduardo Galeano.

Inside this magnificent book, Eduardo explores the good and

bad. The sun and shadows. The dark and light of soccer that manifest on and off

the field. From the beauty and joy that spring forth from pure soccer light, to

the darkness that oozes forth from global soccer marketing, greed, lust, and

unbridled exploitation.

Eduardo sums up the whole of soccer in hundreds of short,

sparkling, lyrical essays. Each position, each major organization, and hundreds

of huge soccer goals remembered in hundreds of different ways.

Players and moments

you may not have heard of but won’t soon forget.

The goal scored in a supermarket.

The referee given a round of sympathetic applause for a

death in the family and then mocked after the first call.

The loneliness of the goalkeeper.

The soccer players who refused to wear advertisements on

their jersey because they had escaped the bonds of slavery once before.

The anger and joy of the supporters.

Eduardo Galeano is watching and waiting inside his book. A

man without a team, a man who will watch anyone play soccer, a man praying for the

one glorious moment when the soldiers on the pitch break free from their

regiment and instead of marching, dance. The moment they rejected their training and orders

and revert to a moment of childhood excitement, do what they shouldn’t, and

light up the shadows with a brilliant moment that brings even the drunkest fan

to their feet.

Galeano wants you to see through his eyes.

Amazon

grahamfox@gmail.com
