It's Day 38 of 2017.

MINNESOTA UNITED PRESEASON

Several players have been released from the training camp roster by Minnesota United. (And a couple others newsworthy items here too.) By Megan Ryan of the Star Tribune.

Released:

Sammy Ndjock

Lance Laing

Duke LaCroix

Andrew Tinari

Marco Carducci

Charlie Lyon

David Goldsmith

The only unsigned players left with the team are:

Tiago Calvano

Eugene Starikov

Raul Gonzalez

Matches:

Portland Invitational

-Thu Feb 9

MNUFC v Vancouver Whitecaps - 7:00pm CT

-Sun Feb 12

MNUFC v Portland Timbers - 7:00pm CT - Watch online at timbers.com

-Wed Feb 15

MNUFC v Real Salt Lake - 7:00pm CT

Training camp roster (28):

G: John Alvbage, Alec Ferrell, Patrick McLain

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (trialist), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Thomas de Villardi, Joe Greenspan, Ismaila Jome, Brent Kallman, Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas

M: Bernardo Anor, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Collin Martin, Kevin Molino, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson, Johan Venegas, Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez

Trinidad + Tobago club W Connection posted a Tweet saying their player, 22 year old right full back Alvin Jones, will be getting a look with Minnesota during the Portland tournament.

dN

A feature story on the world traveler, food fanatic, jiu jitsu practitioner and rock n roll lover Anthony Bourdain. By Patrick Radden Keefe of the New Yorker.

dN

MLS commissioner Don Garber made a trip to Vancouver and laid out new plans for helping grow the game in Canada. By Patrick Johnston of the Province.

dN

Bobby Wood with another BINGO for Hamburg - today in a 2-0 win v Koln in the DFB Pokal Quarterfinals:

?? Bobby Wood goal alert?? The American has scored for Hamburg in the DFB Pokal. With a win, his club moves on to the quarterfinal. #USMNT pic.twitter.com/cNV8nAQ6rk

— Planet Fútbol (@si_soccer) February 7, 2017

dN

Catching up with the coaching career of American Steve Cherundolo who is working in the youth ranks at Hannover, the only team he ever played for. By Brian Kay of Four Four Two.

The Bird Is The Word
