STARTERS

DirecTV customers, like me, can watch all the UEFA Champions League games LIVE on channels 461-466. (It would have been nice to have this info, say, yesterday maybe. Oh well, at least we got it.)

dN

So what is Jozy Altidore up today? I know this much, he is still not training with Hull. Let's check Twitter shall we:

-"In conn waiting patiently for the uk permit to be finalized...in the meantime might as well shoot a ESPN commerical rite? Haha"

-"Its going to be cool so make sure you all look out for it! Ill let you know when its going to air so yall can tell me what you think."

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The Group Stage games begin today!

Matchday 1

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Aug 18

Columbus Crew v Puerto Rico Islanders - 7pm Central on FSC

Marathon v DC United - 9pm Central on FSC

UNAM Pumas v Comunicaciones - 9pm Central on Galavision

-Wed Aug 19

Houston Dynamo v Isidro Metapan - 7pm Central on FSC

Arabe Unido v Pachuca - 7pm Central on Telefutura

Cruz Azul v Saprissa - 9pm Central on Telefutura

-Thu Aug 20

San Juan Jabloteh v Toluca - 7pm Central on Galavision

Real Espana v W Connection - 9pm Central on Galavision

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch previews the Crew's first ever CL match. Home tonight against Puerto Rico who have been there and done that.

dN

The Dispatch Crew Kicks blog also previews.

dN

John Haydon of the Washington Times previews DC's trip to Honduras to battle Marathon.

dN

The Washington Post blog Soccer Insider talks to DC midfielder Santino Quaranta about the tourney.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America previews the MLS teams in the group stage. Via Sports Illustrated.

MLS

MLS Week 23 Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 19

Chicago Fire v Los Angeles Galaxy - 8pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

-Thu Aug 20

Seattle Sounders FC v New England Revolution - 9pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

-Sat Aug 22

DC United v Los Angeles Galaxy - 6:30pm Central on FSC & FSE

San Jose Earthquakes v Kansas City Wizards - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Chivas USA v Toronto FC - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

-Sun Aug 23

New York Red Bulls v FC Dallas - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Chicago Fire v Colorado Rapids - 5pm Central on Direct Kick

New England Revolution v Real Salt Lake - 5pm Central on Direct Kick

Houston Dynamo v Seattle Sounders FC - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

dN

Columbus centerback Chad Marshall was named Player Of The Week.

dN

Buzz Carrick at 3rd Degree reports that Dallas has snapped up Honduran midfielder Marvin Chavez on a load deal from Marathon. I think they now have enough midfielders to trot out the 0-10-0 formation.

dN

Martin Rogers of Yahoo Sports basically says that David Beckman has gone from being an ambassador for MLS and the Galaxy to being an embarrassment. I chuckled when I Bex read say the ref was crap after his lousy tackle got him a Red Card. Column contains other soccer notes from around the world too.

MLS COACHES HOT SEAT

It's been a pretty quiet season with only 1 coach being fired. Who might be next? The list has gotten shorter lately.

1. Juan Carlos Osorio - New York Red Bulls

2. Tom Soehn - DC United

3. Jason Kreis - Real Salt Lake

US OPEN CUP

WE WIN TROPHIES - DC United is pulling out all the stops locally to promote their upcoming Open Cup Final match against Seattle. A reader named Trey sent us this picture of the full page newspaper ads the team is running in "the Post, Times, Examiner and Post Express." And here is a link to the text of those ads. (thanks Trey)

USL FIRST DIVISION

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Aug 18

Carolina RailHawks v Vancouver Whitecaps

Cleveland City Stars v Montreal Impact

-Wed Aug 19

Rochester Rhinos v Minnesota Thunder

-Thu Aug 20

Charleston Battery v Vancouver Whitecaps

-Sat Aug 22

Cleveland City Stars v Minnesota Thunder

Rochester Rhinos v Carolina RailHawks

Portland Timbers v Miami FC Blues

-Sun Aug 23

Montreal Impact v Austin Aztex

Vancouver Whitecaps v Miami FC Blues

dN

Standings (with goal differential):

48 Portland(+25)

44 Charleston(+12)

43 Carolina(+15)

41 Puerto Rico(+9)

32 Rochester(+2)

26 Vancouver(+2)

26 Montreal(-3)

* * Out of Playoffs * *

25 Miami (-10)

19 Minnesota(-9)

15 Austin(-18)

13 Cleveland(-25)

TEAM USA

USA fan Warren Aboa who was right behind me at Azteca tells his story of going to the big game last week in Mexico City.

dN

Steve Davis at Soccernet looks ahead to the suddenly must win home game against El Salvador in early September.

dN

US Soccer has announced that doctors have prescribed a flu treatment regimen to all USA players, coaches and staff who came into contact last week with Landon Donovan, who on Thursday was diagnosed with the H1N1 influenza - Swine Flu.

-The Mexican press had a field day at Donovan's expense once word got out that he was sick during the game. Two newspapers I saw on Saturday had large pictures of him on the front page, one with large type that just read Irresponsible, and the other of LD shaking hands with Gerrardo Torrado and the caption El Tri On Alert!

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

Phil Anschutz has been added to the USA Bid Committee.

dN

I don't understand why there isn't a fans representative on this committee.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365 talks to Charlie Davies about his huge week, including his big splash in France.

dN

Arsenal of London has signed USA U17 midfielder Luis Gil. He has been living, studying and playing in Bradenton FL as a part of the USA development academy.

dN

Seltzer at No Short Corners reports that Freddy Adu's potential loan deal from Benfica to Odense is OFF.

dN

Several Americans are participating in Europa League matches on Thursday

Clint Dempsey - Fulham

Mikkel Diskrud - Stabaek

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa

Ryan Guy - St Patrick's Athletic

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa

Tim Howard - Everton

Eddie Johnson - Fulham

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

BELGIUM - Exqi League

Niko Gkionis - Royal Liege - season begins on Wed Aug 19 at Tubize.

DENMARK - Superliga

Dan Califf - Midtjylland - played the full 90 but lost 1-0 at Odense.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - started and went the full 90 as they beat Djurgarden 2-0 at home.

CANADA

If you are in Toronto this weekend you need to go check this out:

Athletes for Africa

5 v 5 Charity Soccer Tournament

Toronto

Sat Aug 22

And some semi-rock stars are playing:

Rivers Cuomo - Weezer

Ted Leo – The Pharmacists

Kris McFarlane & Murray Foster - Great Big Sea

Brendan Canning - Broken Social Scene

Eon Sinclair - Bedouin Soundclash

After-party: Modest Mouse concert

ENGLAND

Portsmouth goalkeeper David James writing in the Observer about the financial mess going on at his team.

dN

The Observer also has a chat with Stan Bowles who was a bad boy player in the 70's. He gives his view point on the state of the game in England today.d

dN

Fulham has signed Damien Duff. At one time I thought (and I guess a lot of other people did too) that Damien Duff was going to light up the world with his play. Remember the 02 World Cup when he and Robby Keane were flying into the attack like madmen. It brought a smile to my face every time. But it seems like that was his peak instead of his launch. Oh well. Best of luck to him at the new club.

SCOTLAND

Kevin McCarra of the Guardian looks at Rangers & Celtic and sees big problems with a lack of talent in Scotland.

EUROPE

Rafael Honigstein of the Guardian on week 2 in the new German season - Hamburg is off to a fast start.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune writes Adrian Mutu's legal woes. He is in a battle with former team Chelsea over his long suspension due to drug use, and money they want back.

dN

ESPN Soccernet talks to Samuel Eto'o about his new team Inter. Eto'o says he is ready to make a difference.

dN

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tells us about Romanian team Timisoara who were taken away by a greedy owner and brought back to life by another. They are making a bid for the Champions League this year.

dN

David Conn of the Guardian on the latest rumblings of a breakaway European Super League. This time from Arsenal coach Arsene Wenger.

UEFA CHAMPIONS & EUROPA LEAGUES

The Champs League is going through what they are calling the Play-Off Round.

1st Leg

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Aug 18

Sheriff v Olympiacos

Kobenhavn v APOEL

Celtic v Arsenal

Timisoara v Stuttgart

Sporting v Fiorentina

-Wed Aug 19

Panathinaikos v Atletico Madrid

Levski Sofia v Debreceni

Lyon v Anderlecht

Red Bull Salzburg v Maccabi Haifa

Ventspils v Zurich

dN

Thursday sees the Play-Off Round for the Europa League.

UEFA FOOTBALLER OF THE YEAR

The finalists for the 08/09 UEFA Footballer of the Year have been announced. The winner will be awarded on Aug 27.

Nominees:

Petr Cech

Samuel Eto'o

Steven Gerrard

Xavi Hernandez

Andres Iniesta

Lionel Messi

Gerard Pique

Cristiano Ronaldo

John Terry

Victor Valdes

Edwin van der Sar

Nemanja Vidic

Voting is done by coaches of the 16 teams that make the knockout stage of the Champions League.

SOUTH AMERICA

FIFA.com does a Q & A with Nelson Haedo Valdez of Paraguay & Werder Bremen, looking ahead to his country qualifying for WC10.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Tim Vickery of Sports Illustrated looks at soccer as a national identity and wonders if there is any chance it will approach that level in the USA.

dN

The Financial Times posted an extract from Simon Kuper's new book which will come out in America in October and be called (unfortunately) Soccernomics.

ENDERS

Happy 60th Birthday to Adidas!

It's the only brand of shoes I wear.

(And I still want to get my hands on one of those Confed Cup balls.)
