STARTERS

There is a mountain of international friendlies going on this week. See all details below in varying regional sections.

dN

Juan Carlos Osorio has now BACKED OUT of an agreement to take over as head coach of Honduras. Late last week it was announced that he had taken the job.

-Is he a nut job?

STORY OF THE DAY

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe with a big article on the New England Revolution's prodigy Diego Fagundez. (includes video)

-Photos too.

CHARLIE DAVIES

Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald covers the story of Charlie Davies tryout with DC United.

Jeff Maurer of the Washington Post Box Seats blog feels that Charlie Davies is a risk worth taking.

Amy Shipley of the Post on Davies at DCU camp.

The Post also reports that Davies scored a goal and assisted on another in a scrimmage against the Canadian U20 team on Monday morning.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES COMING UP THIS WEEKEND

After a dull couple of weeks we got a whole slew of great games to watch this past weekend, including 2 classic derby matches.

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Feb 4

Borussia Dortmund 0-0 Schalke - The Revierderby saw the #1 team stumble again but still have a 12 point lead.

-Sat Feb 5

Barcelona 3-0 Atletico Madrid - so much for this being any kind of challenge. And Messi bagged all 3 goals.

Stade Rennes 1-0 PSG - Rennes moved up the charts and are now tied with PSG at #2 (Five points behind the league leaders Lille.)

-Sun Feb 6

Hamburg PSTPD St Pauli - The Hamburgderby was postponed due to several days of heavy rain water logging the field.

Rangers 2-2 Celtic - a draw for The Old Firm in the Scottish Cup! That means a re-play!

Inter 5-3 Roma - Inter controlled a wild high scoring game.

Chelsea 0-1 Liverpool - an ugly game sees the Liverpeople grab a big win.

Lyon 0-0 Bordeaux - the scoreless draw showed that neither team has what it takes to challenge for the title right now.

MLS/USA & RELATED RUMORS

Today's ridiculous name in the hopper: Miroslav Klose.

dN

Our F-I-F Henrik tells us that 29 year old Danish forward Rajko Lekic wants out of Denmark, and MLS is at the top of his list.

-Here is his goal scoring record over the past 4 seasons. Not bad at all.

2007–2008 Esbjerg 23 games / 6 goals

2008-now Silkeborg 62 games / 39 goals

dN

Has Colombian forward Jorge Perlaza signed with Portland? He has been in training camp with.

-He is 25 years old and has scored 39 goals in 209 professional games.

dN

Soccer 365 with the latest rumors concerning Klose, Alex, Benni McCarthy, Ousmane Dabo, Ressor Moreno, Lester Peltier, Julian Baudet and much more.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

I hit 6'4" by age 15 and those 2 previous years were full of what we call growing pains. Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated sees MLS going through that stage right now.

-The league has what I like to call "the good kind of problems."

CD CHIVAS USA

Scott French of ESPN with a story on second year central midfielder Blair Gavin, who showed a lot of promise in this first season until he got injured.

COLUMBUS CREW

Long time Crew midfielder Duncan Oughton has officially retired, and been hired by the club to assist technical director Brian Bliss.

HOUSTON DYNAMO

Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Chronicle on the groudbreaking ceremony for the Dynamo Stadium. (With video)

-More stadium notes.

There are new images of the stadium too.

The exterior looks amazing. (click to enlarge)

SPORTING KANSAS CITY SC

The Sporks and the Crew played to a 2-2 tie on Saturday.

NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION

The Revs signed central midfielder Pat Phelan to a new contract.

PORTLAND TIMBERS

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America does a Q & A with the team's first MLS head coach John Spencer.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

Joshua Mayers of the Times looks at the biggest questions the Sounders are hoping to answer in preseason.

Mayers with the latest Sounders notes.

And Jose Romero of the Times on centerback Jhon Kennedy Hurtado who is returning after missing almost all of 2010 with a knee injury.

Brad Evans scored as Seattle beat Vancouver 1-0 in their first preseason game of the year.

TORONTO FC

TFC beat Red Star Belgrade 1-0 on Sunday.

VANCOUVER WHITECAPS FC

Marc Weber of the Province on Jay DeMerit.

Weber also writes about the Caps #1 overall draft pick Omar Salgado.

Bruce Constantineau of the Sun tells us about the team's first preseason game - a loss to Seattle.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Martin Rogers of Yahoo looks at Clint Dempsey's ever growing career at Fulham.

dN

Jozy Altidore and Michael Bradley were not in uniform for their new teams this weekend.

dN

Ives Galarcep at Fox Sports looks at the American players who changed teams during the January transfer window.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad reports that Yevgeni Starikov has signed a 2 year contract extension with Zenit St Petersburg that lasts through 2013 season.

dN

Game Action:

BELGIUM - Pro League

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - came on as a sub in the 86th as they won 2-0 v Sint-Truiden.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - went the full 90 scoring the 2nd goal as they drew 2-2 at Aston Villa.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - in goal as usual for a tie 2-2 v Fulham.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - started and went 87 min but they lost 2-1 at Tottenham.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance as they won 5-3 v Blackpool

Jermaine Jones - Blackburn - started and went 79 min picking up a yellow card as they lost 4-3 at Wigan.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - didn't dress as they lost 0-1 v Birmingham.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Conor Doyle - Derby County - on the bench for a 1-1 tie at Portsmouth.

Robbie Findley - Nottingham Forest - out injured as they won 1-0 v Watford.

Brad Guzan - Hull City - went the distance in a 1-5 win at Scunthorpe.

Eddie Johnson - Preston North End - played the whole game but got waxed 0-4 v Bristol City.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - started but came out at half time as they lost 2-1 at Burnley.

ENGLAND - League One

Anton Peterlin - Plymouth Argyle - on the bench for a 2-0 loss at Brentford.

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - played the full game but lost 1-3 v Walsall.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - played the whole game getting a yellow card and they won 1-2 at Montpellier.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Timothy Chandler - Nurnberg - came on as a sub in the 72nd as they won 1-0 v Bayer Leverkusen.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - played the full match as they won 1-0 v Wolfsburg.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Edson Buddle - Ingolstadt - started and played 79 min as they won 1-0 v Arminia Bielefeld.

Luis Robles - Karlsruher - went the distance losing 3-0 at Paderborn.

Bobby Wood - 1860 Munich - came on as a sub in the 87th min as they tied 1-1 v Fortuna Dusseldorf.

David Yelldell - Duisburg - went the distance and won 3-1 v Erzgebirge Aue.

NETHERLANDS - Eredivisie

Oguchi Onyewu - Twente - out injured as they drew 1-1 at Utrecht

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - came on as a sub in the 81st but they lost 1-0 at RKC Waalwijk.

SCOTLAND - Scottish Cup

Mo Edu - Rangers - played the whole match as they drew 2-2 v Celtic.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Games Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Daniel Antunez - Estudiantes Tecos - came on as a sub in the 63rd min but lost 3-2 at San Luis.

Jonathan Bornstein - Tigres UANL - started and played 79 min as they won 2-0 at Santos Laguna.

Edgar Castillo - Puebla - went the distance but lost 0-1 v UNAM Pumas.

Herculez Gomez - Pachuca - went the full 90 losing 2-0 at Monterrey.

Sonny Guadarrama - Atlante - came on as a sub in the 71st min but lost 2-0 at Guadalajara.

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - out injured as they won 2-0 v Atlante.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - played the full match getting a yellow card and losting 2-0 at Monterrey.

LIGA DE ASCENSO

Joe Benny Corona - Tijuana - played the entire game as they drew 2-2 at Dorados.

Marco Vidal - Leon - went the full 90 and won 2-0 v Universidad Guadalajara.

dN

Coming Up:

LIGA DE ASCENSO

Joaquin Hernandez - Indios - Mon Feb 7 at Merida

MEXICO

Recap du Nord: After 5 rounds there are 6 teams already pulling away from the pack, San Luis(11 pts), UNAM Pumas(11 pts), UANL Tigres(10 pts), Atlas(10 pts), America(10 pts) and Cruz Azul(10 pts).

CONCACAF

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Feb 6

Grenada v St Kitts & Nevis

-Tue Feb 8

Peru v Panama

-Wed Feb 9

Mexico v Bosnia-Herzegovina

Honduras v Ecuador

El Salvador v Haiti

Greece v Canada

ENGLAND

West Bromwich Albion dismissed their head coach Roberto Di Matteo.

-Odd that just a year ago he was a genius, and now hes an god damned idiot.

dN

Sachin Nukrani of the Guardian with five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

dN

Recap du Nord: With Man U losing their first game of the season other teams had a big chance to make up points. But #2 Arsenal threw away a 4-0 lead and only got 1 point, #3 Man City capitalized (but have played an extra game), Chelsea choked against now #6 Liverpool, and Tottenham won (too bad they don't play Chelsea until the end of April.)

Top of the Table: (25 GP)

54 Man United - Sat Feb 5 L 2-1 at Wolverhampton

50 Arsenal - Sat Feb 5 drew 4-4 at Newcastle

49 Man City - Sat Feb 5 W 3-0 v West Brom (26 GP)

44 Chelsea - Sun Feb 6 L 0-1 v Liverpool

44 Tottenham - Sat Feb 5 W 2-1 v Bolton

SPAIN

Phil Ball of ESPN takes in the wonders of a Real Madrid home game, and reviews the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian sees the end for Atletico Madrid head coach Quique Sanchez Flores coming very soon, and the rest of the weekend in the top Spanish division.

dN

Recap du Nord: The top 2 both strolled, while #3 Villarreal lost. Valencia stayed #4, but a new team has grabbed the fifth spot as Espanyol lost, and Athletic Bilbao took advantage.

Top of the Table: (22 GP)

61 Barcelona - Sat Feb 5 W 3-0 v Atletico Madrid

54 Real Madrid - Sun Feb 6 W 4-1 v Real Sociedad

45 Villarreal - Sat Feb 5 L 0-1 v Levante

44 Valencia - Sun Feb 6 W 2-0 v Hercules

38 Athletic Bilbao - Sat Feb 5 W 3-0 v Sporting Gijon

37 Espnayol - Sat Feb 5 L 3-2 at Almeria

FRANCE

Ben Lyttleton of Sports Illustrated shows us the fragile/volatile side of football in France.

dN

Recap du Nord: Lille remain #1, but #2 PSG lost to new #3 Rennes (they are tied on points), former #3 Lyon dropped to 5th with a tie, and Marseille rose to 4th with a win.

Top of the Table: (22 GP)

42 Lille - Sun Feb 6 D 1-1 at Auxerre

37 PSG - Sat Feb 5 L 1-0 at Rennes

37 Rennes - Sat Feb 5 W 1-0 v PSG

36 Marsielle - Sat Feb 5 W 1-0 v Arles

35 Lyon - Sun Feb 6 D 0-0 v Bordeaux

dN

FIFA.com does a Q & A with French national team coach Laurent Blanc.

-France hosts Brazil on Wed.

GERMANY

Wolfsburg has sent head coach Steve McClaren packing. He will be replaced by his assistant Pierre Littbarski.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian tells us about the glorious gut-shot that Koln put to Bayern, and the rest of the weekend in the Bundesliga.

dN

Recap du Nord: Dortmund got a draw, but #2 Leverkusen failed to take advantage by losing, then #3 (now #5) Bayern really blew losing a 0-2 lead and going down 3-2, allowing Mainz to move to 3rd with a tie and Hannover back up to #4 with a win.

Top of the Table: (21 GP)

51 Borussia Dortmund - Sat Feb 5 D 0-0 v Schalke

39 Bayer Leverkusen - Sat Feb 5 L 1-0 at Nurnberg

37 Mainz - Sat Feb 5 D 1-1 v Werder Bremen

37 Hannover - Sat Feb 5 W 1-0 v Wolfsburg

36 Bayern Munich - Sat Feb 5 L 3-2 at Koln

ITALY

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Inter's big offensive show against Roma, and the rest of the round in Serie A.

dN

Recap du Nord: Milan drew again, and #2 Napoli & #3 Inter won again moving them both closer to the top. (Inter has a game in hand, and with a win they would be only 2 pts back.) Lazio stayed 4th with a draw, while Roma dropped to 7th with their loss, leaving Palermo to jump up to #5 with a road win.

Top of the Table: (24 GP)

49 Milan - Sun Feb 6 D 1-1 at Genoa

46 Napoli - Sun Feb 6 W 2-0 v Cesena

44 Inter - Sun Feb 6 W 5-3 v Roma (23 GP)

42 Lazio - Sun Feb 6 D 1-1 v Chievo

40 Palermo - Sun Feb 6 W 2-4 at Lecce

UEFA

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Feb 6

Poland 1-0 Moldova

-Tue Feb 8

Romania v Ukraine

Cyprus v Sweden

Ireland v Wales

-Wed Feb 9

Spain v Colombia

Denmark v England

France v Brazil

Argentina v Portugal

Germany v Italy

Netherlands v Austria

Luxembourg v Slovakia

Malta v Switzerland

Poland v Norway

Azerbaijan v Hungary

Estonia v Bulgaria

Iran v Russia

San Marino v Liechtenstein

Latvia v Bolivia

Northern Ireland v Scotland

Andorra v Moldova

Mexico v Bosnia-Herzegovina

Greece v Canada

Albania v Slovenia

Belarus v Kazakhstan

Belgium v Finland

Israel v Serbia

Turkey v S Korea

Croatia v Czech Republic

Armenia v Georgia

CONMEBOL

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Feb 8

Peru v Panama

-Wed Feb 9

Spain v Colombia

Argentina v Portugal

Latvia v Bolivia

Honduras v Ecuador

COPA LIBERTADORES

The Intial Round (to fill the final 6 spots in the Group Stage) is complete.

-Cerro Porteno, Union Espanola, Gremio, Tolima, Independiente and Jaguares have advanced to the groups.

dN

And now the Group Stage begins with 2 games this week.

The set up is 8 groups of 4 playing each other home and away for a total of 6 games for each team.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Feb 9

Fluminense v Argentinos Juniors

Tolima v Guarani

dN

Standings:

Group 1

Universidad San Martin (Peru)

Libertad (Paraguay)

Once Caldas (Colombia)

San Luis (Mexico)

Group 2

Junior (Colombia)

Oriente Petrolo (Bolivia)

Leon du Huanuco (Peru)

Gremio (Brazil)

Group 3

Argentinos Juniors (Argentina)

Nacional (Uruguay)

Fluminense (Brazil)

America (Mexico)

Group 4

Caracas (Venezuela)

Universidad Catolica (Chile)

Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

Union Espanola (Chile)

Group 5

Santos (Brazil)

Colo-Colo (Chile)

Tachira (Venezuela)

Cerro Porteno (Paraguay)

Group 6

Internacional (Brazil)

Jorge Wilstermann (Bolivia)

Emelec (Ecuador)

Chiapas Jaguares

Group 7

Estudiantes (Argentina)

Guarani (Paraguay)

Cruzeiro (Brazil)

Tolima (Colombia)

Group 8

Liga Quito (Ecuador)

Penarol (Uruguay)

Gody Cruz (Argentina)

Independiente (Argentina)

AFRICA

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Feb 8

Cote d'Ivoire v Mali

Ghana v Togo

Mozambique v Botswana

-Wed Feb 9

Namibia v Malawi

Nigeria v Sierra Leone

Macedonia v Cameroon

Tanzania v Palestine

Libya v Benin

Equatorial Guinea v Chad

Kenya v Zambia

Cape Verde Islands v Burkina Faso

Congo DR v Gabon

Guinea-Bissau v Gambia

Senegal v Guinea

Morocco v Niger

ASIA

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Feb 9

Iran v Russia

Kuwait v Uzbekistan

Tanzania v Palestine

Malaysia v Hong Kong

Philippines v Mongolia

Bhutan v Afghanistan

Cambodia v Macau

Chinese Taipei v Laos

Turkey v S Korea
