It's Day 257 of 2017.

RIP Grant Hart.

A talented and troubled guy who helped make Husker Du one of the greatest underground rock bands of all time.

There will be many heavy hearts in the Twin Cities and around the world today. A lot of people knew Hart. And yes he created almost all of his brilliance, demons, unpredictable thrills and bad luck.

I always saw his songs along the same lines as Mick Jones from the Clash - he wrote those songs you immediately turned toward because they were just more traditionally tuneful. Over the long haul Bob Mould and Joe Strummer balanced it out to make those two bands in particular so great, but Hart and Jones were equally as key to the story.

Here is a playlist of some of my favorite Husker Du songs written by Grant Hart:

Pink Turns to Blue - from the album Zen Arcade

Don't Want to Know If You Are Lonely - from the album Candy Apple Grey

Diane - from the EP Metal Circus

Never Talking to You Again - from the album Zen Arcade

Standing by the Sea - from the album Zen Arcade

The Girl Who Lives on Heaven Hill - from the album New Day Rising

Books About UFOs - from the album New Day Rising

Green Eyes - from the album Flip Your Wig

Statues - from the 7" single

Remembrance from Hart's Husker Du band mates.

Bob Mould:

Greg Norton:

dN

Owners of the teams in NASL have a lot of decisions to make in the next few weeks. The future of their league turn on what they choose. And there are no easy answers. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Results:

-Wed Sep 13

Vancouver Whitecaps 3-0 Minnesota

My MNUFC Notes:

And it wasn't nearly as close as just 3-0.

Game highlights [VIDEO] - Nah!

Thumbs up to Warner who had his best game for Minnesota last night.

Francisco Calvo did not travel with the team to Vancouver after his wife gave birth on Tuesday. Congrats to the whole family.

Atlanta was truly awesome last night!

Last Saturday against Philadelphia we saw JVenegas subbed into the game in the ? minute and proceed to give us one of the worst professional performances I have ever seen. Not, "disaster" horrible, but "I couldn't care less or put out less effort" horrible. And what does coach Adrian Heath due to JV? He starts him in the next game and lets him play the whole 90 minutes. Unreal. No punishment whatsoever. This tells JV that he can be as shitty as he wants to be and there will be no consequences for his actions. Remember early in the season when JV walked out of practice and then skipped the next day over some issue with his contract? His punishment for that was to go with the team on the road and come on as a sub. Again, no punishment at all, just reinforcing to JV that he can do whatever he wants and the coach will not punish him for letting his teammates down.

Vancouver did not even start their #1 goal scorer Fredy Montero.

Again Minn used only 2 subs, and 1 was due to injury. With 3 games in 8 days you need to give guys a rest whenever you can and not run them into the ground.

Molino was "sick" and didn't dress for the game.

Yes, Minn dominated the possession, but it was almost all in the middle of the field.

The Loons put in cross after cross with seemingly little plan to do anything with those crosses. Plus Vancouver swept them all aside like fruit flies.

Kallman had a particularly bad game. Watching Whitecaps run right past him for the first two goals and then getting injured and having to come out of the game.

Greenspan who replaced Kallman wasn't any better.

Boxall moved away from Shea who scored the 3rd VW goal right before the cross came in. Boxall had him marked, then left him wide open 7 yards in front of goal.

Good game: Warner

OK game: Shuttleworth, Thiesson, Boxall, Ibson, Finlay, Nicholson, Danladi, Jome

Bad game: Kallman, JVengas

If Cronin, Calvo, Kallman and Taylor all miss Saturday's game in Montreal then Minnesota is once again doomed.

And if JVenegas starts in Montreal, I might lose it completely.

Schedule:

-Sat Sep 16

Montreal Impact v Minnesota - 6:30pm CT on FOX29

dN

Simply put:

MLS Expansion Team Midweek Update

MIN: 2 shots on goal in a 3-0 shellacking, 10th place

Atlanta: Scored 7 against NE, 3rd in stacked East

— Jon Marthaler (@jmarthaler) September 14, 2017

dN

Asking: du Nord Music Mix Vol 138 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

A spectacular night for Atlanta United. Holy Moly!

A 7-0 demolition of New England.

Game highlights. [VIDEO]

Josef Martinez scored in the 2nd minute, and added 2 penalties before the 40th.

Kouassi (16th) and Milnar Delamea (38th) both got Red Cards for New England.

I fear for Minnesota's safety when they visit Atlanta on Oct 3. (Many MU and AU big name players will be away for international duty.)

The league has over turned a red card given to Seattle Sounders' Roman Torres last Sunday.

Week 28 Schedule:

(13 games)

-Wed Sep 13

Atlanta 7-0 New England

Vancouver 3-0 Minnesota

-Sat Sep 16

Atlanta v Orlando

Vancouver v Columbus

Montreal v Minnesota

Dallas v Seattle

Chicago v DC

Kansas City v New England

Colorado v New York City

Salt Lake v Portland

LA v Toronto

San Jose v Houston

-Sun Sep 17

New York RB v Philadelphia

dN

More new music from Burial today - Rodent. The quixotic Londoner always gives us something interesting in the way of bedroom dancefloor music.

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

San Lorenzo was the only winner in the 3 games last night. 1 more first leg game today.

Quarterfinals Schedule:

Leg One

-Wed Sep 13

Barcelona (Ecu) 1-1 Santos (Bra)

Botafogo (Bra) 0-0 Gremio (Bra)

San Lorenzo (Arg) 2-0 Lanus (Arg)

-Thu Sep 14

Wilstermann (Bol) v River Plate (Arg)

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE - GROUP STAGE

Big wins on Wednesday: Real Madrid and Manchester City both rolled over opponents and Tottenham beat a Dortmund team that looked superior in most ways. (And 1 of those 2 or Real Madrid will not make it to the knockout rounds. Sorry APOEL.)

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPES TOP LEAGUES:

-Sat Sep 16

Watford v Manchester City

Bayern v Mainz

Getafe v Barcelona

Liverpool v Burnley

Tottenham v Swansea

Werder Bremen v Schalke

Leipzig v Monchengladbach

Crotone v Inter

Roma v Hellas Verona

Atletico Madrid v Malaga

Monaco v Strasbourg

-Sun Sep 17

Chelsea v Arsenal

Sassuolo v Juventus

Real Sociedad v Real Madrid

PSG v Lyon

Manchester United v Everton

Dortmund v Koln

Milan v Udinese

Napoli v Benevento

Girona v Sevilla

Amiens v Marseille

The Bird Is The Word
