It's Day 237 of 2016.

Minnesota United begins the task of building a team for MLS:

Peter Vermes and Taylor Twellman give their perspectives on how this can be done. By Jeff Rueter of Fifty Five One.

There are plenty of expansion examples out there to show the new boys how to avoid disaster. By Steve Davis of Four Four Two.

Here is my formula for a MLS expansion team: Defense + Defense + Defense + Defense = Not embarrassing.

dN

Former Seattle Sounders head coach Sigi Schmid talks about what lead to his demise with the team this season. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

dN

LAFC has signed a massive deal for stadium naming rights with Banc Of California worth $100M. That is staggering. By Eben Novy-Williams of Bloomberg

So why do I immediately think of this from Colorado just 2 years ago: "Rapids partner with Ciao Telecom for historic jersey partnership," which turned into missed payments and a dropping of the sponsorship only 9 months later... I am not saying this is that kinda deal for LAFC, but when things look too good I get a funny feeling. I hope I am wrong.

Insider news on the deal - the bank and team are tied together at the hip in many ways including: The chief executive of Banc of California is the son in law of LAFC's executive chairman. From the LA Times.

dN

Orange County Blues player Richard Chaplow has been named as the person who harassed LA Galaxy player Robbie Rogers with homophobic slurs during their game last weekend with LAGII last weekend, and he has been suspended for 2 games by the USL.

MLS players have been given a 3 game suspension in the past for similar offenses.

But none of the MLS players who used the slur ever used it directly at a player because they were gay. It was always used as a general taunt.

This punishment is light and bullshit. If I ran the club he would have already been cut before the announcement was made public.

Chaplow is a 31 year old English player from Accrington who has a private Twitter account, with over 26,000 followers.

dN

American fullback DeAndre Yedlin has been sold by Tottenham to Newcastle for nearly $7M. Nice.

Tottenham doubled the amount of money they paid Seattle for Yedlin 2 years ago.

dN

American Fabian Johnson and Monchengladbach rolled to a 6-1 win in a UEFA Champions League Qualifying 2nd Leg match today at home v Young Boys. Aggregate score ended 9-2.

Johnson went the full 90 as the team prepares to open the Bundesliga season on Saturday v Leverkusen.

Thorgan Hazard and Raffael each got a hat trick today for Gladbach.

The draw for the Champions League group stage will be held on Thursday.

dN

A featurette on Ale Bedoya's transfer from Nantes to Philadelphia. From US Soccer.

.@AleBedoya17 shares the behind-the-scenes story of his move to @PhilaUnion in #TheJourney: https://t.co/Fiu6QmlUVL pic.twitter.com/1p91ZZ5UUc

— U.S. Soccer (@ussoccer) August 24, 2016

dN

Leon lost in Copa MX on Tue night 1-3 at home to Atlante - Miguel Ibarra was not in uniform. WTF!

dN

CONCACAF Champions League group stage Matchday 3 schedule:

Pachuca and Vancouver both laid out 3-0 wallopings - Pac to Police United, and Vac to Sporting KC.

KC played a full B-team while VW used half-and-half team. You know half milk and half cream.

Vancouver and Pachuca both have the full 6 points after 2 games.

KC has just 1 point after 2 games. It will take a miracle for them to advance.

Dallas and Tigres are the 2 big teams with games tonight.

Viewing options: Univision Deportes and Facebook.

-Tue Aug 23

Alianza 1-1 Antigua GFC

Vancouver Whitecaps 3-0 Sporting Kansas City

Pachuca 3-0 Police United

-Wed Aug 24

Don Bosco v Arabe Unido

Tigres UANL v Plaza Amador

Real Esteli v Dallas

-Thu Aug 25

W Connection v Honduras Progreso

Dragon v Saprissa

dN

I believe this proves that god and the devil are one in the same! hahahahahaha

Leading active men's international goal-scorers:

Carlos Ruiz, Cristiano Ronaldo 61

Lionel Messi 55

Wayne Rooney 53

Clint Dempsey 52

— Grant Wahl (@GrantWahl) August 24, 2016

The Bird Is The Word
