It's Day 10 of 2018.

Christian Pulisic talks USMNT World Cup qualifying heartbreak. By Raphael Honigstein for ESPNFC.

dN

USMNT JANUARY CAMP

A hamstring injury has forced Dom Dwyer out of the camp.

Q + A with head coach Dave Sarachan on the camp and the state of US Soccer. By Ridge Mahoney for Soccer America.

Possible highlights that could come from this camp. By Avi Creditor for Sports Illustrated.

Roster:

G: Alex Bono - Toronto, Bill Hamid - Midtjylland, Cody Cropper - New England Revolution, Zack Steffen - Columbus Crew

D: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Nick Lima - San Jose Earthquakes, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Ike Opara - Sporting Kansas City, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps, Matt Polster - Chicago Fire, Brandon Vincent - Chicago Fire, Walker Zimmerman - Los Angeles

M: Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Paul Arriola - DC United, Russell Canouse - DC United, Marky Delgado - Toronto, Marlon Hairston - Colorado Rapids, Ian Harkes - DC United, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Wil Trapp - Columbus Crew, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Orlando City, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Christian Ramirez - Minnesota United, Rubio Rubin - no club, CJ Sapong - Philadelphia Union

Friendly Schedule:

-Sun Jan 28

USA v Bosnia + Herzegovina - 8:30pm CT on FS1

Stub Hub Center - Carson CA

dN

LOS LOONS

Assistant coach Ian Fuller scouted new signing Frantz Pangop and shares some thoughts with three reporters:

Fifty Five One - Wes Burdine

Pioneer Press - Andy Greder

Star Tribune - Megan Ryan

12 days until preseason begins

Off Season Signings:

Harrison Heath

Tyrone Mears

Frantz Pangop

dN

Top 25 Tracks Of The Year: du Nord Music Mix (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Vancouver has pulled off a deal to sign 29 year old Mexican right fullback Efrain Juarez from Monterrey. He had kinda lost his starting role with Rayados. Good move.

MLS is currently holding a 3 day scouting combine in Fort Lauderdale for young players from the Caribbean. The 22 invited players are from 16 countries and age 18-21.

A person unknown to me named Tutal Rahman has posted a lengthy Tweet thread about MLS budgets, how they work, and how they can be best utilized.

You will learn something by reading this.

dN

USL

Indy Eleven has joined the tied of NASL defectors and will play in USL in 2018.

Some feel that Jacksonville Armada is right behind them.

USL now has 35 teams for the 2018 season.

dN

NASL

Down to 4 teams:

Jacksonville

Miami

New York

Puerto Rico

Slated to join next season:

California United

San Diego 1904

dN

EUROPE

Benevento, the Serie A team that started the season with 17 losses and 1 tie has won its last 2 games in a row. They are still 9 points away from relegation safety, but who knows. Any chance? Highly unlikely, but for a while I was wondering if they would ever score 10 goals.

The Bird Is The Word
