Talk about bold statements: "Our goal is to bring as many players as possible to Europe."

-USA assistant coach Andy Herzog said that to German newspaper Kreiszeitung.

-He was commenting on Jordan Morris training with Werder Bremen.

-Absolutely fascinating seeing an assistant coach giving interviews to German press about American players. Has he ever spoken to the American press?

-It seems to me that the national team staff is telling the young striker to go to Germany, and not Seattle Sounders. We shall see what happens.

dN

The roster for the USA January camp has been released:

G: Bill Hamid - DC United, Luis Robles - New York Red Bulls

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, - Matt Miazga - New York Red Bulls, Eric Miller - Montreal Impact, Tim Parker - Vancouver Whitecaps

M: Fatai Alashe - San Jose Earthquakes, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Mix Diskerud - New York City, Ethan Finlay - Columbus Crew, Jermaine Jones - no club, Darlington Nagbe - Portland Timbers, Lee Nguyen - New England Revolution, Marc Pelosi - San Jose Earthquakes, Matt Polster - Chicago Fire, Tony Tchani - Columbus Crew, Wil Trapp - Columbus Crew

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Jerome Kiesewetter - Stuttgart, Jordan Morris - no club, Khiry Shelton - New York City, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

dN

"DROGBA NE JOUERA PLUS"

-From the front page of L'Equipe today.

Didier Drogba arrête sa carrière https://t.co/7IyXuyUD1k pic.twitter.com/KhG2nB72GQ

— L'ÉQUIPE (@lequipe) January 6, 2016

-They say Didier Drogba has retired. Meaning he leaves playing in Montreal to become an assistant coach at Chelsea.

-Montreal should be financially compensated by Chelsea for breaking his contract.

-Oh, and the Impact have repeated that Drogba has not told them he is retiring.

dN

R.U.Ready? For Some Liga MX?

Clausura Opening Weekend:

-Fri Jan 8

Queretaro v Atlas

Tijuana v Pachuca

-Sat Jan 9

America v Puebla

Monterrey v Pumas

Leon v Santos Laguna

Morelia v Cruz Azul

Chiapas v Dorados

-Sun Jan 10

Toluca v Tigres

Guadalajara v Veracruz

dN

Minnesota United's new head coach Carl Craig will be in attendance at the MLS Combine this weekend, scouting for potential players. If you are there, go say Hi to him.

dN

I really love Los Angeles. Not just for the weather. The food is one of the biggest reasons. Best food in America. BY FAR. New York is second place. Check out this guide to late night dining. Amazing variety.

dN

NICE! After discontinuing the sturdiest turntable ever made Technics has seen the error in its ways and will re-introduce the 1200!

The Bird Is The Word
