It's Day 119 of 2016.

CONCACAF Champions League Final:

Club America of Mexico City has won their 7th CONCACAF championship.

Huge congrats to them. This title sets a new CONCACAF record.2nd Leg

-Wed Apr 27

Club America 2-1 UANL Tigres (2-0) - Ame wins the series 4-1 on aggregate.

USA defender Ventura Alvarado was in the game-day 18 player roster, but did not play for America.

And USA midfielder Jose Torres was not in uniform for Tigres.

dN

UEFA Champions League Semifinals:

A spectacular goal by Saul gave Atleti the only goal of the round among the 4 teams.

Match review of Atletico Madrid v Bayern Munich. By Jorge Garcia of AS.

2nd Leg

-Tue May 3

Bayern Munchen v Atletico Madrid (0-1)

-Wed May 4

Real Madrid v Manchester City (0-0)

dN

Roberto Soldado was a high priced player at Tottenham who gave them just average performances. So where did it go wrong, and what kind of track is he on now at his new and very different type of team Villareal? By Sid Lowe of the Guardian.

dN

Minnesota United defensive midfielder Greg Jordan, the man I call Swampthing cuz he's a vegan superhero, has suffered a torn right meniscus that has required surgery. The team has hope he will be back on the field late in the year. I will be surprised if that happens. We wish him a speedy recovery.

Minnesota United has a bye this weekend.

NASL Week 5

-Sat Apr 30

Ottawa v Miami

Fort Lauderdale v Tampa Bay - yet another Florida rivalry

OKC v Indy

-Sun May 1

Cosmos v Carolina - a big big big big one! #3 v #1!

dN

Purple: du Nord Music Mix Vol 81 (download + extract)

dN

I got a text message from a friend last night:

DL: Axel Rose to replace Brian Johnson?????? Who came up with an idea like that?

Me: An accountant.

dN

The young goalkeeper from Minnesota Cody Cropper tore the labrum in his right shoulder last weekend playing for MK Dons and has had surgery to repair the damage. By Brian Quarstad of Northern Pitch.

To make things worse, the team ended up losing the game and were officially relegated out of the English Championship division.

dN

MLS Week 9 began last night:

Did all six teams get together before the night started and make a deal? "Hey lets all go out there and score 1 goal each. That way no one goes home disappointed." Painful.

-Wed Apr 27

New York City 1-1 Montreal

New England 1-1 Portland

Vancouver 1-1 KC

Montreal got the tying by Dominic Oduro off a free kick in 2nd half stoppage time.

New England stole a point in the games last minute off a Jermiane Taylor Own Goal.

Kendall Waston got 2 yellow cards so Vancouver played down a man for 39 minutes, but Kansas City could not make them pay.

More MLS Week9 coming up this weekend:

-Fri Apr 29

Red Bulls v Dallas

-Sat Apr 30

Montreal v Colorado

New York City v Vancouver

Philadelphia v San Jose

Seattle v Columbus

Chicago v DC

New England v Orlando

Salt Lake v Houston

-Sun May 1

Portland v Toronto

KC v LA

dN

For those of you still wondering about how bad Darlington Nagbe's leg injury is, he started and went 90 on the fake turf in New England last night.

dN

Bradley Wright Phillips was in a big slump to start the season, but finally broke loose last weekend. What was the dealio? By Graham Parker of ESPNFC.

dN

After winning big in Week 1 of this MLS season Houston has gone completely in the tank. What is going on with the Dynamo? By Scott French of Four Four Two.

Is coach Owen Coyle on the hot seat? He should be.

dN

Speaking of the hot seat. Here's the latest installment of....

du Nord Futbol's MLS Coaches Hot Seat Power Rankings:

5 Patrick Viera - NYC - somehow the team is worse then last year, and they blamed Jason Kreis

4 Jeff Cassar - there's been instability at this team since the owner, general manager and head coach all left

3 Greg Vanney - no Toronto coach is ever NOT on the hot seat

2 Owen Coyle - year two of poor performances may not come to a pleasant end

1 Sigi Schmid - the team is floundering and the fans are getting restless with the Potato Salad King

dN

Today we get, of all people, David Beckham and Tim Leiweke in Las Vegas trying to con that city out of a billion dollars or so to build the Oakland Raiders a football stadium, that can have a MLS team too, I suppose. By Avi Creditor of Sports Illustrated.

Fer fuck sake, can't these two just go back to Miami and get something done there! Then they can go help other people. Right now they have the credibility of Pat Paulsen For President.

The Bird Is The Word
