SPECIAL NOTE: Come Say Goodbye to the Sweetwater Tonight - Tue Nov 17 USA v Trinidad + Tobago (5:25pm CT). Be there cuz this is the last hurrah. The beloved(?) bar + grill is closing forever at end of November and this is the final USA game before then. Its been our home for over 10 years and deserves a righteous send off.

dN

“I was overjoyed!”

-Trinidad + Tobago head coach Stephen Hart reacts to the news that Clint Dempsey was not named to the USA squad.

dN

I am not sure how the French team is pulling it together to play a friendly match tonight in England. I don't think I could go through with it. Martin Samuels of the Daily Mail tries to make sense of the whole scene.

dN

Without attacking anyone the cowardly terrorists have struck a blow in Germany when a suspicious package found in the stadium caused the cancellation of today's Germany v Netherlands game in Hannover. Story from Deutsche Welle.

-ADDITIONAL NOTE: Its looking more and more like these threats were for real, with serious destruction planned, but foiled by security.

Sadly, the same scenario in Belgium where the friendly v Spain was also called off due to fear of attack.

dN

USA CONCACAF WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Rd 4 Game 2 Group C

-Tue Nov 17

Trinidad + Tobago v USA - 5:25pm at Hasely Crawford Stadium in Port-Of-Spain, Trinidad on beIN Sports

Match previews:

-Stiff Test as Warriors healthy and ready for US. From Trinidad and Tobago Guardian.

-Hart not focusing on November memories. By Joel Bailey of Trinidad and Tobago Newsday.

-Jurgen Klinsmann and the United States face Trinidad and Tobago test. By Doug McIntyre of ESPN FC.

-‘Here we go again!’ U.S. soccer team returns to Trinidad and Tobago. By Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

In the past 7 games against CONCACAF teams the USA has won only 2 - against Cuba and St Vincent + The Grenadines. That is not good enough. At all.

The story of little known USA forward Bobby Wood. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

USA Roster:

G: Brad Guzan, Bill Hamid, Tim Howard

D: Ventura Alvarado, Matt Besler, Geoff, Cameron, Fabian Johnson, Matt Miazga, Michael Orozco, Tim Ream, Brek Shea

M: Kyle Beckerman, Michael Bradley, Mix Diskerud, Miguel Ibarra, Jermaine Jones, Darlington Nagbe, DeAndre Yedlin

F: Jozy Altidore, Alan Gordon, Jordan Morris, Bobby Wood, Gyasi Zardes

Results from CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying

Rd 4 Game 2 - Tue Nov 17

Honduras v Mexico - GA

El Salvador v Canada - GA

Haiti v Jamaica - GB

Panama v Costa Rica - GB

St Vincent + The Grenadines v Guatemala - GC

dN

US Soccer Federation president Sunil Gulati answered the big questions last week. From Sports Illustrated.

dN

Real Salt Lake pulled off one of the greatest planned free kick plays of all time this season. Genius Football reminds us just how great it was.

-I was watching the game when it happened and I leaped out of my seat in joyous celebration.

They had no idea what hit them. Great free kick. pic.twitter.com/Mgu30LdSZG

— GeniusFootball (@GeniusFootball) November 17, 2015

dN

Euro 2016 Qualifying Playoffs: (4 winning teams will be the last to advance to the next summer's tournament)

2nd Leg

-Sun Nov 15

Hungary 2-1 Norway - Hungary advances 3-1 on aggregate.

-Mon Nov 16

Ireland 2-0 Bosnia + Herzegovina - Ireland advances 3-1 on aggregate.

-Tue Nov 17

Slovenia v Ukraine (0-2)

Denmark v Sweden (1-2)

dN

Five emerging international footballers who could become stars at Euro 2016. By Martin Laurence of the Guardian.

dN

When a seemingly invincible athlete like Ronda Rousey gets KOed where does she go next? From Victor Mather of the New York Times.

dN

New.

dN

Awesome illustrations of some of the best bookstores in Minnesota. Buy a book at a store today! You won't regret it. My fave these days is Common Goods in St Paul.

The Bird Is The Word
