STARTERS

Yes, I am a Twit, are you? Find me: dunord

dN

The Amazing Zizou Speaks Champions League! See video of Zinedine Zidane talking about the Champions League final (Wed May 27). From Adidas. And they promise more cool interviews to come.

MLS

Chivas USA will get a big boost to their defensive depth this weekend as long time Mexican star Claudio Suarez is finally healthy for the first time this season. Now they need Ante Razov back in top shape and they will be ready. I think it's huge that they get points now because they are one of those teams that will have the log jam of games later in the season due to their participation in SuperLiga this year.

dN

The Los Angeles Galaxy have booked a friendly against Costa Rican team CS Herediano on Tue Jun 9 at The Home Depot Center in Carson CA.

dN

Canada.com talks to the former New York centerback Jeff Parke who was suspended by MLS last year for using Performance Enhancing Drugs, and eventually released by his team. He is now suiting up in the defense for the Vancouver Whitecaps.

dN

The Washington Times with an article on one of the DC United rookies getting maximum playing time - Rodney Wallace.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News with the latest on RSL's goalkeeper injury crisis.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post looks at Red Bulls left winger Khano Smith who will get another chance to prove he can play due to the Red Card suspension of Jorge Rojas.

dN

Ben Rycroft of Metro tells us about what could be the last days in Toronto for midfielder Rohan Ricketts.

dN

Daniel Girard of the Toronto Star talks to TFC coach Chris Cummins about what it will take to bring this team to "the next level".

dN

Should Philadelphia spend big money on a player like Dutch midfielder Clarence Seedorf?

US OPEN CUP

MLS 2nd Round Qualifying Match:

-Wed May 20

DC United v Red Bull New York

The winning team moves on to the tournament proper.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Michael Bradley and his team Monchengladbach sit just above relegation in the Bundesliga on this the last week of the season. Teams finishing in 16th, 17th & 18th go down, and Gladbach are currently in 15th, three points above both Arminia Bielefeld and Energie Cottbus and ahead of both on goal difference by 4 and 7 respectively. Bradley's team also are just 1 point behind 14th place Bochum, who are safe from relegation. This round sees Monchengladbach with the toughest match of these three teams, hosting Dortmund on Sat May 23. Dortmund are in 5th place, above Hamburg on goal differential for next season's last Europa League spot.

-Here is the schedule:

30 (-23) Monchengladbach - Next: Sat May 23 v Dortmund

27 (-27) Arminia Bielefeld - Next: Sat May 23 v Hannover

27 (-30) Energie Cottbus - Next: Sat May 23 v Bayer Leverkusen

dN

The Glasgow Herald mentions the signing (finally) of goalkeeper Dominic Cervi at Celtic. They also make some dumb factual errors that we have all come to expect with British papers.

dN

Yanks Abroad talks to the young Californian Anton Peterlin who recently signed with Everton in England. Great story.

dN

Soccer By Ives reports that USA U17 midfielder Luis Gil has been training with Arsenal and is close to being offered a deal.

MEXICO

The last 4 kicks off Wednesday night!

Primera Liguilla Semifinals

1st Leg Matches (with seeds included):

-Wed May 20

Puebla(3) v UNAM Pumas(2) - 8pm Central on Azteca America

-Thu May 21

Indios Juarez(4) v Pachuca(1) - 7pm Central on Azteca America

2nd Leg Matches (with 1st leg scores included):

-Sat May 23

UNAM v Puebla (-) - 5pm Central on Telemundo

-Sun May 24

Pachuca v Indios (-) - 7pm Central on Telefutura

If series ends tied the winner is the higher seed!

CANADA

The Canadian Championship tournament, between Montreal Impact, Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps, provides the winner of two legged round robin tournament with a spot in the 09/10 CONCACAF Champions League.

Match & Scores:

-Wed May 20

Montreal v Vancouver

Standings (4 game home & away round robin):

6 Toronto (2 played)

0 (-1)Montreal (1 played)

0 (-1)Vancouver (1 played)

ENGLAND

The Guardian looks at what could be negative about Fulham finishing off a great season in 7th place and qualifying for the Europa League next season. The team is "Already assured of the best league placing in their 130-year history."

EUROPE

Cup competitions around Europe:

Puchar Polski Final

-Tue May 19

Ruch Chorzow 0-1 Lech Poznan - LP have won the Polish Cup final! Big Congrats to them. Or as they say in Poland: Gratulacje!

UEFA Cup Final

-Wed May 20

Shakhtar Donetsk v Werder Bremen at Sukru Saracoglu Stadium in Istanbul Turkey

SOUTH AMERICA

Reuters reports that Ronaldo could be in trouble for "hair pulling."

ENDERS

I had an excellent chat the other night with my friend Kevin about this fine young man - Remi Gaillard. He is a fantastic French imposter. He shows up at all kinds of events and attempts to blend in with the stars of the show. He has done it many times at big football matches, putting on the full team uniform and joining them on the field for medal ceremonies and post game celebrations with fans. Pure genius. Of course YouTube has several videos, like this football celebration. Make sure to watch some of the others too, my favorite being the Mr. Universe competition!
