STARTERS

Tweedly Deedly Deet Me ala Twitter: dunord

dN

Shakhtar Donetsk of Ukraine are the 2009 UEFA Cup Champions! Congrats or as they say in Ukrainian: вітання

dN

Luis Figo: "I am ready to consider offers from American clubs or Japanese sides. Also offers from China, why not?"

MLS

Week 10 Matches:

Saturday, May 23

Toronto FC v New England Revolution - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

DC United v Real Salt Lake - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

Kansas City Wizards v Chivas USA - 7:30pm Central on FSC

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

FC Dallas v Los Angeles Galaxy - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Houston Dynamo v San Jose Earthquakes - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Colorado Rapids v Seattle Sounders FC - 8:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Sunday, May 24

New York Red Bulls v Chicago Fire - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

Columbus Crew has a bye week.

dN

One of DC United's 2 major owners, Victor MacFarlane, has sold his stake in the team to the other, Will Chang. Here is the official press release from the team.

-Steven Goff of the Washington Post on his blog Soccer Insider talks to Chang.

dN

Just in case you haven't checked lately, DC United's Jaime Moreno currently sits at 125 goals in his MLS career! The all-time leader. Incredible!

dN

You want another amazing stat - Houston goalkeeper Pat Onstad has played in 175 MLS games and averages only 1.05 goals allowed per game!

dN

Jose Romero of the Seattle Times talks to Sounder midfielder Brad Evans who was knocked out cold during a collision with Dallas keeper Ray Burse last weekend. How's he doin'?

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News writes about the Salt Lake defense, which is the key to their moving forward as a team.

dN

Michael C Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune wonders if RSL's less than stellar start was due to all the pre-season hype making the team over-confident.

dN

Bryan Alvarez of Soccer America with a profile on LA Galaxy rookie centerback Omar Gonzalez.

dN

New York's left sided midfielder Jorge Rojas got a Red Card last weekend for throwing a nasty elbow at Houston's Brian Mullen and got the usual 1 game suspension for it, but the league has tacked a 2nd game punishment on top because Rojas took forever to leave the field, arguing all the way off, and then coming back on to confront Houston goalkeeper Pat Onstad.

dN

Los Angeles right fullback Sean Franklin is out for a while with a torn hamstring muscle. They say it's bad.

dN

Sport24 in South Africa reports that midfielder Mark Haskins of Moroka Swallows will be in LA for a try out with the Galaxy next week. He went to college & played soccer at Florida Atlantic in the late 90's.

dN

DC v Real Madrid on Aug 9 at FedExField in Landover MD.

dN

SF of The Offside Rules brings us a photo essay from the New York Red Bulls v US Navy game played today on the deck of an Aircraft Carrier! Right on. Looks like a blast. Hahahaha. Get it.

US OPEN CUP

MLS 2nd Round Qualifying Match:

-Wed May 20

DC United 5-3 Red Bull New York - DCU goals by Chris Pontius(2), Boyzzz Khumalo, Brandon Barklage & Fred. NYRB goals by Dane Richards & Jorge Rojas(2 - one via PK).

-Tue May 26

Seattle Sounders FC v Colorado Rapids

DC moves on to the tournament proper, as will the winner of the other MLS qualifier.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Brian Strauss of Fanhouse with a cool article on the atmosphere at games in Germany and how that could translate to MLS. He focuses on the counter-culture vibe of one of my favorite teams on earth St Pauli of Hamburg. I love that team and their whole atmosphere. When I visited their stadium during the 06 World Cup I felt as inspired by the game as I ever have. And two Americans have played for St Pauli in the last few years (both in MLS now) - Cory Gibbs at Colorado and Ian Joy at Salt Lake.

dN

The Daily Star of New York introduces us to the new president of the US National Soccer Hall of Fame.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

ESPN talks to Tim Howard - video teaser!

dN

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 names his 08/09 Best 11 Americans Abroad.

MEXICO

The last 4 in the Clausura Playoffs!

Primera Liguilla Semifinals

1st Leg Matches (with seeds included):

-Wed May 20

Puebla Camoteros (3) 1-2 UNAM Pumas(2) - Pue goal by Alejandro Acosta. UNAM goals by Martin Bravo & Marco Palacios.

-Thu May 21

Indios Juarez(4) v Pachuca Tuzos(1) - 7pm Central on Azteca America

2nd Leg Matches (with 1st leg scores included):

-Sat May 23

UNAM v Puebla (2-1) - 5pm Central on Telemundo

-Sun May 24

Pachuca v Indios (-) - 7pm Central on Telefutura

If series ends tied the winner is the higher seed!

dN

Reuters with a story on the dream run by Indios. Their home city of Juarez is known mostly these days for ugly drug wars, so this team is giving the entire city a huge sense of pride.

dN

Mark Zeigler of the San Diego Union Tribune with a cool story on one of the rising teams in Mexico - Club Tijuana aka Xolos or Xoloitzcuintle. Can they do for this drug war ravaged city what Indios is doing for Juarez - give them all something to smile about and rally behind.

CANADA

The Canadian Championship tournament, between Montreal Impact, Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps, provides the winner of two legged round robin tournament with a spot in the 09/10 CONCACAF Champions League.

Match & Scores:

-Wed May 20

Montreal 0-2 Vancouver - Van goals by Marcus Haber & Charles Gbeke.

Standings (4 game home & away round robin):

6 Toronto (2 played)

3 (+1)Vancouver (2 played)

0 (-3)Montreal (2 played)

CENTRAL AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN

FIFA.com has an article on Shalrie Joseph and his Grenada national team.

ENGLAND

The Independent reports that the lower levels of English football are pushing to end the transfer window system.

EUROPE

With Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger telling Real Madrid no thanks, they now turn their lasers on Jose Mourinho of Inter.

dN

Paddy Agnew of World Soccer does a Q & A with Milan & Italy legend Paolo Maldini.

dN

The Bundesliga website looks at the big big match this weekend: Bayern v Stuttgart - both can win it all or at least 2nd place. (But both trail Wolfsburg.) They give the edge to Bayern.

dN

Other Cup competitions around Europe:

UEFA Cup Final

-Wed May 20

Shakhtar Donetsk 2-1 Werder Bremen at Sukru Saracoglu Stadium in Istanbul Turkey - SD goals by Luiz Adriano & Jadson. WB goal by Naldo.

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian writes about Shakhtar's big win.

dN

Landspokal Final

-Thu May 21

Aalborg v Kobenhavn

COPA LIBERTADORES

Round of 16

2nd Leg Matches (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Thu May 21

Boca Juniors v Defensor (2-2)

The winner of this game joins Cruzeiro, Estudiantes, Gremio, Nacional, Sao Paulo, Caracas & Palmeiras in the Quarterfinals.

CONFEDERATIONS CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2009

New Zealand captain, centerback Ryan Nelson, has torn a calf muscle playing for his club Blackburn Rovers and will not be available for this tournament.

dN

Brazil has announced their team for the tournament:

G:

Julio Cesar - Inter

Gomes - Tottenham

Vitor - Gremio

D:

Alex - Chelsea

Daniel Alves - Barcelona

Juan - Roma

Kleber - Internacional

Lucio - Bayern Munich

Luisao - Benfica

Maicon - Inter Milan

Andre Santos - Corinthians

M:

Anderson - Manchester United

Julio Baptista - Roma

Elano - Manchester City

Josue - Wolfsburg

Kaka - Milan

Felipe Melo - Fiorentina

Ramires - Cruzeiro

Gilberto Silva - Panathinaikos

F:

Luis Fabiano - Sevilla

Nilmar - Internacional

Alexandre Pato - Milan

Robinho - Manchester City

U17 WORLD CUP NIGERIA 2009

FIFA announced today that Nigeria is in deep trouble preparing for this tournament and have until the end of June to be 100% ready or they will lose the tournament. Could the USA be lining up to take over as hosts on short notice???

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

International Friendly Match

-Wed May 20

Argentina 3-1 Panama - Arg goals by Matias de Federico & Gonzalo Bergessio(2). Pan goal by Nelson Barahona.

-Match report from Reuters.

ENDERS

My friend Chris Porter writes a great story and Q & A with far from typical ultra extreme grindcore metal band Napalm Death for the Express. The band has had many line-ups and none of the original members are still a part of it all. But I still find it to be fascinating stuff.

dN

Ahhh, The Spark - As the old master sees the young one bloom.
