It's Day 58 of 2017.

Minnesota Dark Clouds annual preseason Supporters Summit is Tue Feb 28. Its really important that you are there.

dN

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The odds are good that once again it will be 2 MLS teams and 2 Liga MX teams in the Semifinals, but we have to wait cuz some big second leg games this week will determine that.

There is a lot of pressure on MLS teams to end the disappointment and win this tournament, finally. By Jon Marthaler for the Star Tribune.

2nd Leg

-Tue Feb 28

Pachuca v Saprissa (0-0) - 9pm CT

-Wed Mar 1

Arabe Unido v Dallas (0-4) - 7pm CT

Pumas v Tigres (1-1) - 9pm CT

-Thu Mar 2

Vancouver v Red Bulls (1-1) - 9pm CT

All games on Univision Deportes & CONCACAF Facebook

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

MNUFC lost its final preseason game 2-0 to USL team San Antonio.

My Notes:

Starting line up - Shuttleworth, KVenegas, Greenspan, Kallman, De Villardi, Martin, Ibson, Molino, Thompson, Kadrii, Gatt

Subs - unknown, as the team did not provided a box score or any mention of the match post game. I guess I saw Jome in there now that I think about it. So there's 1 sub.

No one who is expected to start on Friday night in Portland, except Molino, played at all.

The team didn't have enough subs so a San Antonio player named Kevyn McFarlane played the last 10 minutes on the left side of midfield for the Loons. Odd. That makes 2 subs.

Good - Did you see any? The Loons had a lot of possession but rarely tested the goalkeeper at all. A couple of shots here and there.

Bad - Bust out the Iron Skillet! Defending on set pieces was quite bad. They played without a forward. So there was not much in the attack. Not much at all.

Where has first draft pick Abu Danladi been? We have seen less than 90 total minutes of him in all of preseason. Again odd.

Now it all leads to Friday and the season opener in Portland.

From the local newspapers:

Josh Gatt arrives in the Twin Cities looking to restart a once very promising career. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Rasmus Schuller gets a taste of home with fellow Finns on the Minnesota Wild. By Greder.

The preseason is over, and there were no wins, but there were no injuries etc either, and a lot of team building was done. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

The team has revised their projection for game 1 attendance down to 30,000 from a previous 35,000.

The presence of Minnesota United in MLS will give a big boost to all of local soccer. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

In Orlando for the final 2 preseason games:

-Wed Feb 22

MU 0-3 Toronto

-Sun Feb 26

MU 0-2 San Antonio

Training camp roster (28):

G: John Alvbage, Marco Carducci (trialist), Patrick McLain, Bobby Shuttleworth.

D: Francisco Calvo, Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Joe Greenspan, Brent Kallman, Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Thomas de Villardi (unsigned draft pick)

M: Bernardo Anor, Joshua Gatt, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Ismaila Jome, Bashkim Kadrii, Collin Martin, Kevin Molino, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Tanner Thompson (unsigned draft pick), Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, Christian Ramirez, Johan Venegas

dN

RIP Judge Wapner. Case dismissed.

dN

MLS

Orlando traded Brek Shea to Vancouver for Giles Barnes. Big names who have not lived up to the promise.

I could watch this on a loop:

A ?? at the best goals we've seen...ever. pic.twitter.com/fbBe4GmKLr

— Major League Soccer (@MLS) February 26, 2017

One foreign player signing that has really flown under the clouds is Romain Alessandrini for the LA Galaxy. He could be a huge player this season. By Kevin Baxter for the LA Times.

Frankly the Galaxy will need him to be big time.

A 2017 MLS season preview. By Michelle Kaufman for the Miami Herald.

The first of many to come - a comparison of Atlanta and Minnesota on the eve of the 2017 season. By Clemente Lisi for The US National Soccer Team Players Association.

dN

USMNT U20s at the CONCACAF Championship and U20 World Cup qualifying

USA is thru to the 2nd group stage (2 groups of three) with the top 2 teams advancing to the World Cup.

Losing that 1st game to Panama was a real blow for the USA chances of making the World Cup though because they got stuck in by far the tougher of the 2 groups, facing both other prelim group winners Mexico and El Salvador. Oof.

Group D Matches:

-Mon Feb 27

USA v Mexico - 4pm CT on Facebook

-Wed Mar 1

Mexico v El Salvador

-Fri Mar 3

USA v El Salvador

-----

Group B Results:

-Sat Feb 18

USA 0-1 Panama

-Tue Feb 21

USA 4-1 Haiti

-Fri Feb 24

USA 4-1 St Kitts + Nevis - USA goals by Brooks Lennon, Jonathan Lewis + Sebastian Saucedo(2).

Final Group B Standings:

9 Panama (+7)

6 USA (+5)

3 Haiti (-1)

0 St Kitts + Nevis (-11)

Final is on Mar 5 in Costa Rica.

USA roster:

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown

D: Marlon Fossey - Fulham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City, Auston Trusty - Philadelphia Union

M: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Coy Craft - Dallas, Luca De la Torre - Fulham, Jonathan Gonzalez - Monterrey, Jeremiah Gutjahr - Indiana U, Jonathan Lewis - New York City, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - Las Palmas

C: Tab Ramos

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

The biggest news by far was that Geoff Cameron made a short 8 minute appearance for Stoke, the first time he has been on the field since he suffered a knee injury in late October! This is great for him and the USMNT. Stoke lost badly, 4-0 at Tottenham.

Unfortunately for some of the Americans in the Bundesliga, they are on the 4 teams at the bottom of the league:

15 Werder Bremen 22 - Aron Johnnsson

16 Hamburger 20 - Bobby Wood

17 Ingolstadt 18 - Alfredo Morales

18 Darmstadt 12 - Terrence Boyd

By the way, Bobby Wood didn't play at all this past weekend after suffering a thigh injury last week, but it didn't matter cuz Hamburg was crushed 8-0 by Bayern.

The Terrence Boyd + Darmstadt Tracker:

Results - Sat Feb 25 Lost 1-2 v Augsburg

Note - Boyd came on at half time in a losing effort.

Standings - Last place, 10 points below relegation, and 4 points below playoff

Up Next - Sat Mar 4 at Werder Bremen (and American Aron Johannsson)

dN

MEXICO

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Results - Fri Feb 24 Win 2-0 v Monterrey

Note - The big win coupled with Toluca + Chivas losses vaults Xolos from 3rd back to the top!

Standings - 1st Place, with a +3 GD lead over Toluca

Up Next - Fri Mar 3 v Pachuca (3rd place)

Biggest matches last weekend in Liga MX:

-Fri Feb 24

Tijuana 2-0 Monterrey - #3 moves to #1 v #4 drops to #6

Up Next - its like a mini tournament:

-Fri Mar 3

Tijuana v Pachuca - #1 v #3

-Sat Mar 4

Guadalajara v Toluca - #4 v #2

dN

EUROPE

Biggest matches last weekend in Europe:

-Sun Feb 26

Inter 1-3 Roma - fell from #4 to #6 v #2 (but 7 pts back of Juve)

Atletico Madrid 1-2 Barcelona - #4 (now 10 pts off the lead) v #2 (still 1 pt behind RM)

Villarreal 2-3 Real Madrid - #6 v #1

Marseille 1-5 Paris St Germaine - a rout in Le Classique, the biggest rivalry in France

dN

Well I see you got a new boyfriend

You know I never seen him before

Well I saw him makin' love to you

You forgot to close the garage door

-Bob Dylan

The Bird Is The Word
