-ADDITION: Is this a scoop? While listening to the press conference in Houston announcing the new team I heard the MC introduce various dignitaries. The one that caught my attention was the introduction of Doug Hamilton as an AEG Executive, and former President of the Los Angeles Galaxy. Did we hear a bit of unannounced news here????? At :33 seconds of the conference you will hear: "Doug Hamilton - Chief Operating Officer of AEG Sports, & also last year was the President & General Manager of the LA Galaxy who won the MLS Cup...."

-Houston it is! The San Jose Earthquakes soccer team has officially moved to Houston TX. This is great for one city that really deserves a top flight team, but a complete disaster for another city that had and still deserves a top flight team. Something is just completely wrong with this whole deal. I hope none of the people involved believes in karma, cuz if they do, they better duck.

-The San Jose Mercury News has in-depth coverage of the wreckage from their end of the shaft.

-I think part of this situation is big drag on many levels. First being that San Jose, while not drawing the biggest crowds, has been pretty damn enthusiastic during the matches. Secondly, the rivalry that developed between them and LA was fantastic! Those games were so much fun to watch. And lastly, the fact that a new ownership group could not be found during all this time in SJ shows that MLS still does not have the cache to be a real major league sports enterprise yet.

-But it's about business too. And nothing could be done with the situation as it was to not continue losing millions of dollars every year in SJ.

-The good part is that people in Houston always go to see matches! Lots of people! Period. They also have some of the best daily newspaper soccer coverage already with 3 excellent writers: Glenn Davis, Bernardo Fallas, John Lopez & John Conway. Now they get a quality team to cover.

-One San Jose fan sent a fiery email to MLS Commissioner Don Garber, and actually got a reply. Read it here.

-The 2006 USL First Division schedule has been released. (Including my Minnesota Thunder.) Read it and shout for joy. Thanks to Primuscomics for the heads up.

-The draw was held this morning for the Champions League round of 16 (to be played Feb 21 & Mar 8). There are some fantastic mash-ups here:

Chelsea FC v FC Barcelona

Real Madrid CF v Arsenal FC

Werder Bremen v Juventus

FC Bayern Munchen v AC Milan

PSV Eindhoven v Olympique Lyonnais

AFC Ajax v FC Internazionale Milano

SL Benfica v Liverpool FC

Rangers FC v Villarreal CF

-Last night was the first leg of the Laguilla Final. And what an insane match it was. Toluca 3-3 Monterrey, which is great to see in a big match like that, but the score itself doesn't tell it all. Monterrey tore out to a 2-0 lead before the game was even 8 minutes old. But right on the stroke of half time Toluca rallied for a 2-2 tie. In the 63 minute Toluca scored an own goal to fall back behind. In the 88th minute though they had a the chance to even the score on a PK, but missed it. Only to score a minute later to tie the match at 3 apiece! Talk about drama. Which naturally takes us to the Grand Finale on Sunday with Monterrey holding the magical 3 away goals in their hand. The only way Monterrey can lose now is if they get beat or draw 4-4. See the match Sunday at 5pm on Univision.

-Big Euro matches this weekend:

Lazio v Juventus - The kings of (f or r)acist salutes v the best team in the world - see it at 1:30pm Saturday on Fox Soccer Channel

Werder Bremen v Hamburg - #3 v #2 & trying to keep up with #1 Bayern - see it Sunday at 10:30am central time on Fox Soccer Channel

Arsenal v Chelsea - who is tougher mentally, and will Man U get a chance to chase Chelsea?

Real Madrid v Osasuna - #3 v #2 with 6 points separating them

Rangers v Hearts - Hearts are trying to stay with Celtic at the top, while Rangers are gaining some momentum but are still 14 points back - can they pull off something amazing?

-The Copa Sudamericana second leg Final between Boca Juniors & UNAM Pumas is also set for Sunday from Buenos Aires. Leg one ended in a 1-1 draw. The game is only available live in the US on Fox Sports En Espanyol. But will be shown a day late on Fox Soccer Channel - Mon Dec 19 7PM Central

-Ricardo Seyton of Sports Illustrated previews Sunday's Club World Championship between Liverpool and Sao Paulo.

-Is it funny, cute, nice or weird: DC United keeper lil Nicki Rimando married his longtime sweetie lil Jacqui Little - who used to play pro soccer herself (for the defunct Washington Freedom). And who was it that conducted the ceremony for the lovely twosome? Of course DC United teammate, and professional Caveman impersonator Ben Olsen! Now that is the way to do it up right!

-UEFA Cup final day of group play. Here are the scores from last night:

Hamburg 2-0 Slavia

Monaco 2-1 CSKA Sofia

Palermo 3-0 Brondby

Espanyol 1-0 Maccabi Petach-Tikva

Lens 2-1 Sampdoria

Hertha 0-0 Steaua

Middlesbrough 2-0 Litex

AZ Alkmaar 1-0 Grasshoppers

At this point the top 3 teams from each group go thru to join the 8 3rd place teams from the Champions League in the 2-leg knock out stage matches.

So here are those 16 matches (to be played Feb 15-16 & 23):

1 PFC Litex Lovech v RC Strasbourg

2 VfB Stuttgart v Middlesbrough FC

3 SK Slavia Praha v US Citta di Palermo

4 SC Heerenveen v FC Steaua Bucuresti

5 FC Lokomotiv Moskva v Sevilla FC

6 Bolton Wanderers FC v Olympique de Marseille (FRA)

7 Hertha BSC Berlin v AFC Rapid Bucuresti

8 FC Basel 1893 v AS Monaco FC

9 Udinese Calcio v RC Lens

10 Rosenborg BK v FC Zenit St. Petersburg

11 Club Brugge KV v AS Roma

12 FC Schalke 04 v RCD Espanyol

13 LOSC Lille Metropole v FC Shakhtar Donetsk

14 FC Thun v Hamburger SV

15 Real Betis Balompie v AZ Alkmaar

16 FC Artmedia v PFC Levski Sofia

The round of 16 will then face off like this:

Winners of Match 7 v Winners of Match 14

Winners of Match 8 v Winners of Match 1

Winners of Match 2 v Winners of Match 11

Winners of Match 4 v Winners of Match 15

Winners of Match 3 v Winners of Match 12

Winners of Match 6 v Winners of Match 10

Winners of Match 9 v Winners of Match 16

Winners of Match 13 v Winners of Match 5
