NASL

You cannot deny that top forwards Raul and Tom Heinemann lead their teams to the Championship. Congrats to Cosmos and Ottawa on reaching the Final.

Semifinals:

Sat Nov 7

New York Cosmos 2-1 Fort Lauderdale Strikers - Raul with an amazing goal to win the game.

-Match report from Empire of Soccer.

Sun Nov 8

Ottawa Fury 2-1 Minnesota United - Captain Caveman disassembled the Minnesota defense with two strong goals.

-Match report from Ottawa Citizen.

Final:

Sun Nov 14

New York Cosmos v Ottawa Fury - 4pm CT on ESPN3.com

As for my beloved Minnesota United, the big name/money players were shut down by Ottawa and provided only glimpses of a chance at winning the game. Their individual skill kept them in it till the very end of extra added time, but it was not nearly enough. And tactically they were outmaneuvered at almost every twist and turn of the match.

A very disappointing end to the season, for the 2nd year in a row. The slow fade in the last month is puzzling and the biggest frustration for fans.

dN

MLS Cup Playoffs

Quarterfinals

2nd Leg Schedule

Sun Nov 8

New York Red Bulls 1-0 DC United – NYRB advances via 2-0 aggregate

Columbus Crew 3-1 Montreal Impact – CC advances via 4-3 aggregate

Dallas 2-1 Seattle Sounders – series ends tied 3-3, D advances via 4-2 PKS

Vancouver Whitecaps 0-2 Portland Timbers – PT advances via 2-0 aggregate

The Heroes:

-Dax McCarty, Bradley Wright-Phillips + Gonzalo Veron

-Cedrick Mabwati, Steve Clark, Ethan Finlay + Kei Kamara

-Jessie Gonzalez, Tesho Akindele, Kellyn Acosta + Walker Zimmerman

-Diego Valeri + Fanendo Adi

Five things we learned in this round of playoff matches. By Graham Parker and Graham Ruthven of the Guardian.

Columbus won its first playoff series since Sigi Schmid left the team after winning the 2008 MLS Cup Final.

Semifinals

1st Leg

Sun Nov 22

CC v NYRB - 4:00pm CT on ESPN

PT v D - 6:30pm CT on FS1

-2nd Leg on Sun Nov 29

-Final on Sun Dec 6

dN

Patrick Vieira has been hired as new head coach of New York City FC.

dN

The revivial of a true old school classic that any long time follower of the 2nd Division can tell you all about: MLS Commissioner Don Garber has fined Montreal Impact Owner Joey Saputo, Vice President of International Relations & Technical Development Nick De Santis and Technical Director Adam Braz undisclosed amounts for inappropriate conduct directed at the match officials after the Impact’s match against Columbus Crew SC on November 1, 2015.

dN

Bob Bradley with a video message for the supporters of his club Stabaek - on his way out the door.

dN

The president of the German Football Association Wolfgang Niersbach has resigned while an ongoing investigation suggests Germany bought the votes for 2006 World Cup. From Deutsche Welle.

-Franz Beckenabuer is still not being investigated.

dN

A video report on our love affair with the violent nature of sports. And what is the future of sports that feature violence? From the New York Times.

dN

Even though the issue discussed in this article is very very serious (the horriffic beating of a woman,) the main flavor here is the outright hostility from Philadelphia (Eagles) toward Dallas (Cowboys). By Angelo Cataldi of Philly Voice.

The Bird Is The Word
