It's Day 25 of 2017.

RIP Mary Tyler Moore - Minneapolis' sweetheart.

Husker Du - Love Is All Around

A fitting tribute.

dN

USMNT Friendly on Sunday:

-Sun Jan 29

USA v Serbia - 3:00pm CT on ESPN2

Qualcomm stadium, San Diego

Left fullback Jorge Villafana has been called into the USMNT training camp - he posted a note on Instagram breaking his own news. He currently plays for Santos Laguna in Mexico. He has not been in the starting 11 for any Liga games this winter.

What are the USA's real weaknesses that need to be addressed in the big picture, and more importantly for the March World Cup qualifiers. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

Carlisle also Tweeted that Geoff Cameron is going to begin training again with Stoke after being out several months with an ankle injury.

dN

The Terrence Boyd, Coach Torsten Frings + Darmstadt Tracker:

Bundesliga Standings - 18th Place, 7 points from safety

Up Next - Sat Jan 28 v Koln

dN

Canary: du Nord Music Mix Vol 109 (download + extract)

dN

MLS Signings:

The Vasectomy has landed - Chad Barrett signs with Real Salt Lake.

Orlando has signed American defender Jonathan Spector from Birmingham in England's 2nd division.

Atlanta got good and bad news today - they have signed goalkeeper Brad Guzan. But he won't join them from Middlesbrough until the Summer transfer window opens.

Atlanta has also signed right fullback Tyrone Mears from champions Seattle.

DC United has signed highly underrated attacking midfielder Sebastian Le Toux from Colorado. (I really would have loved to see him with Minnesota.)

dN

Minnesota United Preseason

Whats the story on the goalkeeping situation? By Megan Ryan of the Star Tribune.

LATE EDITION NEWS: This article says Minn has a completed a loan deal for 34 year old Swedish goalkeeper John Alvbage from Goteborg. (Thanks to the DANNO for the link)

Training camp roster:

G: Alec Ferrell, Marco Carducci (trialist), Sammy Ndjock (preseason invitee), Charlie Lyon (trialist)

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (preseason invitee), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Thomas de Villardi, Joe Greenspan, Ismaila Jome, Brent Kallman, Lance Laing (preseason invitee), Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Andrew Tinari (trialist)

M: Bernardo Anor, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Duke LaCroix (trialist), Collin Martin, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson, Johan Venegas, Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, David Goldsmith (trialist), Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez

dN

Its always interesting to check in with Tijuana coach (and former Mexico national team coach) Miguel Herrera. By Tom Marshall of ESPNFC.

dN

Lets get an update on the Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon, as the group stage completes and the knock out rounds begin on Saturday.

-Title defenders Ivory Coast has been eliminated from Group C

-Algeria has been eliminated from Group B.

-The host country Gabon has been eliminated from Group A.

Group A

1 Burkina Faso

2 Cameroon

Group B

1 Senegal

2 Tunisia

Group C

1 DR Congo

2 Morocco

Group D

1 Egypt

2 Ghana

Quarterfinals Schedule:

-Sat Jan 28

Burkina Faso v Tunisia - 10:00am CT on beIN

Senegal v Cameroon - 1:00pm CT on beIN

-Sun Jan 29

DR Congo v Ghana - 10:00am CT on beIN

Egypt v Morocco - 1:00pm CT on beIN

The Bird Is The Word
