It's Day 180 of 2017.

Yesterday I posted du Nord Futbol's MNUFC midseason grades, and a few mid-season awards.

dN

The weird crushing failure of Ronaldo Fenomeno, my favorite player of all time, and his rebirth to glory with Brazil in the 2002 World Cup. By Amy Lawrence for the Guardian.

And watch the highlights of the Final as Brazil beat Germany.

dN

US Open Cup

Oh what a night! Two 2nd division teams advanced to play each other in the Quarterfinals. And both did so in dramatic fashion.

Mitch Hildebrandt! Who had him listed as a 2017 US Open Cup hero??? He and the Cinicinnati defense stymied Chicago all game long, then stone cold blasted them in the Penalty Kick Shootout! Saving 3 of 4 PKs that Chicago attempted. Wow.

After the game Taylor Twellan of ESPN had a great quote about Hildebrandt who had just finished a TV interview with Julie Stewart-Binks: "The first live interview anyone's ever done while standing on his head."

The Cincinnati Enquirer is all over the story. Front page photos and the 4 top stories on the website are all FCC related.

One the papers "Regular Sports Guy" columnists even gets it. By Paul Daugherty for the Enquirer.

And down in Florida Kwadwo Poku got a breakaway and scored with the last kick of the game to push Miami over Atlanta!

The Cincy v Chicago game was live on ESPN too! Fantastic. And over 32k were in the stands.

There were so many great goals last night, but this was my favorite:

FT: Hoesen's fancy footwork makes the difference! @SJEarthquakes are through to the #USOC2017 quarterfinals. https://t.co/FBNdP5Jkph

— Major League Soccer (@MLS) June 29, 2017

Ike Opara scored for SKC last night too. He is a centerback. And this is his 4 goal (in all comps) since Jun 4.

The Open Cup is a great tournament that should be celebrated loudly! By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

A recap of all 7 games from last night. From US Soccer.

Round of 16 Results:

-Tue Jun 27

Dallas 3-1 Colorado Rapids

-Wed Jun 28

Cincinnati 0-0 Chicago Fire - Cin advances 3-1 in Penalty Kick Shootout

Houston Dynamo 0-2 Sporting Kansas City

New England Revolution 2-1 DC United

New York Red Bulls 1-1 Philadelphia Union - NYRB advances 5-3 in Penalty Kick Shootout

Miami 3-2 Atlanta United

San Jose Earthquakes 2-1 Seattle Sounders

LA Galaxy 2-0 Sacramento Republic

Quarterfinals schedule:

-Mon Jul 10

San Jose Earthquakes v LA Galaxy

-Tue Jul 11

Sporting Kansas City v Dallas

-Wed Jul 12

Miami v Cincinnati

-Thu Jul 13

New England Revolution v New York Red Bulls

-Semifinals Aug 8-9

-Final Sep 20

dN

Minnesota United

The team's first trip to NYC and Yankee stadium tonight. I'm sure they are excited. But there quality on the road has been so poor that I don't see them getting much from this game. I have no idea why they are so different than when they play at home, but they sure are.

NYC has lost just 1 time at home this season. And MNUFC has not won a road game. Is tonight the night that changes? Always possible. But not probable.

NYC does give up goals though. Defense is not their forte.

MNUFC trainers track the mileage the players are logging and how they are holding up when the schedule gets heavy. By Aaron Riess for the Star Tribune.

Schedule:

-Thu Jun 29

New York City v Minnesota - 6:30pm CT on My29

dN

Sauce: du Nord Music Mix Vol 128 (download + extract)

dN

One of the best new albums I have heard in a long time: Obnox - Niggative Approach (12XU)

Created by Lamont Thomas from Cleveland. I knew him from the scene at Used Kids Record Store in Columbus in the 90s, and knew him as Bim Thomas.

This album is just wild. I have called it Punk-chaos-nose-RnB meets one-man lo-fi Funkadelic.

Buy it right here at Bandcamp.

dN

Question and answer from Atlanta United team president Darren Eales.

Q: What has been the best moment on the field so far this season?

A: There have been some fantastic moments. For me, winning our first game. Going to Minnesota, first ever win, doing it in the snow.

Going into that game I was a little bit fearful. We had a team of South Amercians playing against a bunch of Scandinavians.

Us both being expansion teams, us scoring six goals, which was a record for an expansion team, all of that made it even sweeter.

Read the full Q + A here. With lots of interesting information, especially on attendance and merchandise. By Doug Roberson for the Atlanta Journal Constitution.

dN

MLS

Before Ashley Cole came to MLS he was known as a malcontent. A couple of years later and that is almost all but forgotten as he keeps his head low and his game solid. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

Things keep getting worse for Portland when you read the injury report: Diego Chara, Darlington Nagbe and Amobi Okugo have all been added to the list.

How does Sporting Kansas City keep its players, who have been very successful, motivated? By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

NYRB has signed goalkeeper Luis Robles to a contract extension. Good move.

Week 18 schedule/results:

(10 Games)

Thu Jun 29

New York City v Minnesota

-Fri Jun 30

Salt Lake v Orlando

-Sat Jul 1

Chicago v Vancouver

Dallas v Toronto

Kansas City v Portland

Montreal v DC

Columbus v Atlanta

Colorado v Houston

San Jose v LA

-Sun Jul 2

Philadelphia v New England

dN

USMNT

Dallas goalkeeper Jesse Gonzalez filed paper work to switch national team alliances from Mexico to the USA. FIFA approved that switch today. Welcome aboard Jesse.

Is there a USA-Ghana rivalry? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Friendly Schedule:

-Sat Jul 1

USA v Ghana - 3:45pm CT on ESPN

Pratt + Whitney Stadium - East Hartford

USA Gold Cup Roster

G: Brad Guzan - Atlanta United, Bill Hamid - DC United, Sean Johnson - New York City

D: Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Matt Hedges - Dallas, Eric Lichaj - Nottingham Forest, Matt Miazga - Chelsea, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Jorge Villafana - Santos Laguna, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

M: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Joe Corona - Tijuana, Dax McCarty - Chicago Fire, Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Kenny Saief - Gent, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Sporting Kansas City, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

dN

CONFEDERATIONS CUP - Semifinals:

It was over after 6 minutes. Germany had put two in the back of the net and Mexico would not mount any attack until the dying minutes of the game. Germany heads to the Final.

Two great match ups in the Semis:

Yesterday - Euro Champ v S Amer Champ

Today - N Amer Champ v World Cup Champ

Schedule/Results:

-Wed Jun 28

Portugal 0-0 Chile - Chi adv 3-0 in Shots From The Mark.

-Thu Jun 29

Germany 4-1 Mexico

FINAL schedule

-Sun Jul 2

Chile v Germany - 12:pm CT on FS1

dN

My columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
