-Laguilla scores:

Thursday:

Toluca 1-0 Cruz Azul - a mild upset, but Toluca was at home and Azul has been floundering

UANL Tigres 1-3 America - a decisive win by the favorites

Wednesday:

UAG 0-3 Monterray - a good old fashioned ass kicking, but expected

Pachuca 2-0 Necaxa - the #5 seed beating #4 is not an upset, but Necaxa will have to turn it up at home this weekend

Games (2nd leg) coming up this weekend:

Saturday:

Monterray v UAG Tecos (5pm on Galavision - live)

Necaxa v Pachuca (8:30pm on TeleFutura - live)

Sunday:

Cruz Azul v Toluca (tv - ?)

Club America v UANL Tigres (5pm on Univision - live)

-There are 2 big Euro matches this weekend:

Sat Dec 3

Lyon v PSG - on Fox Soccer Channel at 4pm central (same day tape delay & repeated Sun Dec 4 at 2pm)

Sun Dec 4

Fiorentina v Juventus - on GolTV live at 8am central

-Now I am planning on seeing this Fior-Juve match with a bunch of like minded idiots at the Local (you should come down and say hi and join the lunacy), but Ken the Keeper sent me this note: Let's hope the game is actually played. Fiorentina hosted Juve in a Coppa Italia match today and, per a post on BigSoccer.com, this is what happened:

"During the first half, a bunch of Juve supporters left their section of the stadium and tried to get into the Tribuna Maratona. The police responded with tear gas. This gas came inside the stadium just as the second half had started, forcing people to leave their seats. Players began to feel the effects of the gas too, so the referee stopped play. After waiting for several minutes, the referee told players to return to the locker room. As of now, the match has been suspended until further notice."

Eventually though, the game was restarted and finished 2-2. The return leg is scheduled for January in Turin. Let's hope for better times between these two when they meet again in Serie A this weekend.

-Q&A with Brazilian Milanese Kaka via UEFA.com

-I like this idea: For the second year, the top four clubs from Denmark, Norway and Sweden will join forces in a winter league called the Royal League! I love this idea. The team that wins it get about a million Euro's. The first game kicked off Nov 10, and the title will be decided on April 6. Last years games drew nearly 10,000 to each. That sounds amazing for winter. Kobenhavn are the title holders. Wikipedia has the page with the best info (format, groups, sched etc). Natch.

Here are the 12 that will face off:

Denmark:

Brondby IF

FC Kobenhavn

FC Midtjylland

Aalborg BK

Norway:

Valerenga IF

IK Start

FC Lyn Oslo

Lillestrom SK

Sweden:

Djurgardens

IFK Goteborg

Kalmar FF

Hammarby IF

-A guy who goes by the name Martin Fischer (I assume it's his actual name) on BigSoccer.com has posted this intensive list of USA World Cup roster hopefuls. He breaks them down by position, mentioning how many of each the team will select. Its impressive to say the least.

-The Thursday scores from Matchday 4 of the UEFA Cup:

Slavia 0-2 Monaco

CSKA Sofia 2-0 Viking

Brondby 1-1 Espanyol

Maccabi Petach-Tikva 0-4 Lokomotiv Moskva

Sampdoria 0-0 Hertha Berlin

Steaua 3-0 Halmstad

Grasshoppers 2-3 Dnipro

Litex 0-2 AZ Alkmaar

So here is who has made the next round so far: Strasbourg, Rapid, Shaktar, Stuttgart, Middlesbrough, AZ Alkmaar, Zenit & Sevilla.

The final group stage Matchday (5) is Dec 14 & 15.

And finally, the updated standings.

-Kasey Keller interview via Yanks Abroad.

-In the second Copa Sudamericana semifinal it was Boca Juniors advancing 1-0 over Universidad Catolica. The first leg had ended 2-2. Boca will face Mexican team Pumas in the 2 legged final.

-The NCAA semi finals go tonite and tomorrow afternoon. Here are the 4 match ups:

Clemson v Creighton

New Mexico v California

Maryland v Akron

North Carolina v SMU

-An interview with Dallas coach Colin Clarke via 3rd Degree.

-ADDITION: A whole bunch of small teams launch into the English FA Cup today, tomorrow and Sunday. Check the schedule here.
