It's Day 172 of 2017.

My latest for 1500ESPN: Minnesota United. USA Men's National Team. 12 Days. 4 Games. 3 Competitions. 2 Countries.

dN

Minnesota United

Lack of goals: Its one thing to be shutout twice by the best defense in the league in Kansas City, but not putting one past the worst defense in the league, Salt Lake, is worrisome. All those games were on the road. The next two are at home. And Portland is susceptible, lets see what happens at home.

Portland will focus on improving their defense for tonight's game. By Jamie Goldberg for the Oregonian.

Minn United brass says they are ready to add players. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

I am very curious to see how far the management will take this. They need 5-6 players. My guess is we will see 1-2.

MNUFC sees Sporting Kansas City's entire organization as a role model. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Schedule:

-Wed Jun 21

Minnesota v Portland - 7:00pm CT on My29.

-Sat Jun 24

Minnesota v Vancouver - 7:00pm CT on My29.

dN

Private: du Nord Music Mix Vol 127 (download + extract)

dN

Former Republican Senator Lowell Weicker Jr from Connecticut, was on a Watergate investigative committee and does not like what he is seeing and hearing from the White House today, it has too many similarities for him. By the former Senator for the New York Times.

dN

MLS

4 games tonight, and 2 more on Friday. Mid-week oh yeah!

The sound coming from the stands means everything to this New York Red Bulls player. In his own words. By Mike Grella of NYRB for The Players Tribune.

The LA Galaxy season got off to a very rough start, but things have turned around in an unexpected way. By Kevin Baxter for the LA Times.

Week 17 schedule/results:

(15 games)

-Wed Jun 21

DC v Atlanta

Minnesota v Portland

Colorado v LA

Seattle v Orlando

-Fri Jun 23

Toronto v New England

Houston v Dallas

-Sat Jun 24

New York RB v New York City

Atlanta v Colorado

Philadelphia v DC

Columbus v Montreal

Minnesota v Vancouver

Chicago v Orlando

LA v Kansas City

San Jose v Salt Lake

-Sun Jun 25

Portland v Seattle

dN

Samantha Kerr of Sky Blue named NWSL Player Of The Week

dN

USMNT

Gold Cup roster speculation. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

I am not big on speculation. Just thought I would put this here in case you are. I know many people dig it.

dN

Canadian Championship - Final Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Wed Jun 21

Montreal v Toronto

2nd Leg

-Tue Jun 27

Toronto v Montreal

The Bird Is The Word
