SEE YOU THERE

One of the truly great games of any season happens this Sunday as Barcelona and Real Madrid face off. They are currently at #2 and #1 in the Spain's Liga and will most likely give us a very entertaining two hours of soccer.

Come join me to watch the spectacle:

Barcelona v Real Madrid

Sun Nov 29

12 Noon Central

The Sweetwater

At the Kelly Inn Best Western

Marion & I94

St Paul

STARTERS

Coming Soon: The DaMarcus Colletion

dN

Clint Dempsey scored 2 goals by Fulham today as they clobbered Blackburn 3-0 in the Premiership.

dN

Vancouver 24 Hrs is reporting that the Whitecaps have hired the executive director of English club Tottenham Hotspur to become their new chief executive. Big move.

MLS

Steve Davis at ESPN Soccernet with a good recap of the entire 2009 season.

dN

Brain Strauss of Fanhouse calls the city of Seattle the star of the MLS Cup.

dN

Brent Latham of Yanks Abroad in considering the building of the new Philadelphia team looks at the rest of MLS and sees abundant quality.

MLS EXPANSION DRAFT

Here are the 5 teams that did not lose any players to Philadelphia in the expansion draft:

-FC Dallas

-Houston Dynamo

-Kansas City Wizards

-Real Salt Lake

-Toronto FC

USL FIRST DIVISION

So as of today, what is left of USL-1? Here are the 6 teams still signed on:

-Portland Timbers - for just once season until they join MLS in 2011.

-New York FC - a brand new team with no players, and from what we hear no resources either.

-Puerto Rico Islanders - a well run and successful team.

-Rochester Rhino - a long time staple that appears to be rebounded from financial hardship a couple years ago.

-Cleveland City Stars - searching for an owner and possibly joining Charleston in dropping back down a league to USL-2.

-Austin Aztex - beginning their 2nd season.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Yanks Abroad has an interview with Eric Wynalda in 2 segments: Part 1 - and - Part 2.

dN

Peter Wilt at Pitch Invasion looks at the end of an era for an old friend, and a re-newed era for himself.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premiership

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - started and went 75 minutes as they hung on to beat Everton 3-2 at home.

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - went the full 90 scoring 2 goal as they wiped out Blackburn 3-0 at home!

Tim Howard - Everton - played the entire match as usual but lost 3-2 at Hull City.

GERMANY

The BBC reports that Hannover will wear the #1 front and center on their uniforms for the rest of the season in memory of goalkeeper Robert Enke who recently took his own life. The idea for the shirts was that of the teams co-captain Steve Cherundolo. (Thanks to Jason for the link.)

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Bordeaux, Manchester United, Chelsea, Porto, Fiorentina, Lyon, Sevilla & Arsenal have advanced to the knock out stages.

dN

Matchday 5

-Tue Nov 24

Debreceni 0-1 Liverpool - Liv goal by David Ngog.

Fiorentina 1-0 Lyon - Fio goal by Juan Vargas(PK).

Rubin Kazan 0-0 Dynamo Kyiv

Barcelona 2-0 Inter - Bar goals by Gerard Pique & Pedro.

Rangers 0-2 Stuttgart - Stu goals by Sebastian Rudy & Zdravko Kuzmanovic.

Unirea Urziceni 1-0 Sevilla - UU goal by Ivica Dragutinovic(OG).

AZ Alkmaar 0-0 Olympiacos

Arsenal 2-0 Standard Liege - Ars goals by Samir Nasri & Denilson.

-Wed Nov 25

Bordeaux 2-0 Juventus - Bor goals by Fernando Menegazzo & Marouane Chamakh.

Bayern Munchen 1-0 Maccabi Haifa - BM goal by Ivica Olic.

CSKA Moskva 2-1 Wolfsburg - CM goals by Tomas Necid & Milos Krasic. Wol goal by Edin Dzeko.

Manchester United 0-1 Besiktas - Bes goal by Rodrigo Tello.

Real Madrid 1-0 Zurich - RM goal by Gonzalo Higuain.

Milan 1-1 Marseille - Mil goal by Marco Borriello. Mar goal by Lucho Gonzalez.

Porto 0-1 Chelsea - Che goal by Nicolas Anelka.

APOEL 1-1 Atletico Madrid - APO goal by Nenad Mirosavljevic. AM goal by Simao.

dN

Group Stage Standings:

Group A (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

+13 Bordeaux

8 Juventus

7 Bayern Munich

0 Maccabi Haifa

Group B (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

+10 Manchester United

7 Wolfsburg

7 CSKA

4 Besiktas

Group C (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

10 Real Madrid

8 AC Milan

7 Marseille

3 Zurich

Group D (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

+13 Chelsea

+9 Porto

3 Atletico Madrid

2 APOEL

Group E (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

+12 Fiorentina

+10 Lyon

7 Liverpool

0 Debrecen

Group F (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

8 Barcelona

6 Inter Milan

6 Rubin Kazan

5 Dynamo Kyiv

Group G (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

+10 Sevilla

8 Unirea Urziceni

6 Stuttgart

2 Rangers

Group H (after 5 of 6 rounds played)

+13 Arsenal

7 Olympiacos

4 Standard Liege

3 AZ Alkmaar

+Has secured their spot in the knock out rounds.

dN

The top 2 teams from each group will advance. While the 3rd place teams move down to the Europa League.

dN

Matchday 6 will be played on Tue Dec 8 & Wed Dec 9.

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Matchday 5 will be played on Wed Dec 2 & Thu Dec 3.

MIDDLE EAST

The New York Times with a story on the Iraqi national team which has been suspended from international competition by FIFA after the government interfered in the running of the team.
