QUOTE OF THE DAY

Bruce McGuire (Hey, that's me!): "I can't wait to start watching the Africa Cup of Nations on Sunday at the Holyland in Northeast Minneapolis! I can also be found watching games at the best soccer bar on earth The Sweetwater in St Paul. The first game is the host Angola v Mali (who have an amazing midfield.) Where will you be watching at?"

STARTERS

Landon Donovan will probably make his debut for Everton on Saturday at Arsenal, but sadly the game is not on Television. Dammit. I guess I will just have to go the pirate route then.

dN

Nick Firchau of the Chicago Sun Times reports that the Chicago Fire has hired Mexican Carlos de los Cobos AKA Carlos of the Conch as their new head coach. He was formerly in charge of the El Salvador national team.

-The Conch gives du Nord the thumbs up:

STORY OF THE DAY

Top story on Al Jazeera right now is the horrible news that the Togo football team preparing for the Africa Cup of Nations has been ambushed on the team bus by terrorists who unloaded on them with machine guns for nearly 20 minutes. The bus driver is dead and several are wounded. The team had a police escort who fought back, probably saving more lives. Insanity!

-A group called Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda has claimed responsibility for the shooting. They are a seperatist group who want their province to be an independent state.

A report from Inside World Football reports that it could have been much worse as the gunmen initially attacked the wrong bus, shooting at the one carrying only equipment.

-This article is continuously being updated as new info comes in.

USSF Division 2

David Fellerath of the Independent Weekly's Triangle Offense has more details from the owner of the Carolina RailHawks on the new league and plans/hopes/dreams for the future of the NASL. Lots of great stuff here.

CHARLIE DAVIES

From the US Soccer Official Blog: "A surprise and special visit at the hotel this afternoon when Charlie Davies dropped by to say hello to his friends on the team. Charlie is looking great and walking on his own. He is returning to Delaware to continue rehabilitation; right now he is in great spirits and taking things one day at a time."

TWITTERVERSE

My latest great find on Twitter is: ZombieJaqua! Yes. Latest post: "brainsssssssss." Naturally.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

The Arsenal USA website talks with their manager Arsene Wenger about Landon Donovan and American players, especially the young ones. He see's the big obsticles players need to over come to get to Europe. Really good stuff. He is certainly very clued in. [Includes video]

TEAM USA

The El Salvador football federation has said that their national team is coming to the United States on Wed Feb 24 to play the USA. No confirmation or other details are available yet.

TEAM USA JANUARY TRAINING CAMP

Official Blog

dN

Noah Davis of Goal.com talks to FC Dallas midfielder Dax McCarty about his prospects with the USA national team.

dN

Word from SoCal is that Jeff Larentowicz has left the camp due to a knee injury. This is the same injury that was affecting him at the end of the season with New England.

dN

Brad Evans has left the camp to get married. Great for him.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Young centerback Zak Whitbread has left Millwall and signed with Norwich. He is coming off a long term injury.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

Landon Donovan's first potential game for Everton is this Sat Jan 9 at Arsenal. Odds are very good that he will play.

MEXICAN INTERLIGA TOURNAMENT

Official Web Site

dN

2 teams from this tournament get a spot in the 2010 Copa Libertadores.

The 8 teams are split into 2 groups and the teams in each group play a round robin.

Then the winner of Group A plays the runner up from Group B for one spot, and winner of Group B plays the runner up from Group A for the other spot.

dN

Group A (2 games played)

6 America (+5)

3 Estudiantes (+1)

3 Atlante (-2)

0 Santos (-4)

Group B (2 games played)

Advanced - 6 Puebla (+4)

2 Monterrey (0)

1 Chiapas (-1)

1 UANL Tigres (-3)

dN

Group Matches & Scores:

-Sat Jan 9

Santos Laguna v Atlante

America v Estudiantes Tecos

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Sun Jan 10

Puebla v UANL Tigres

Monterrey v Chiapas Jaguares

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

dN

Final Matches & Scores:

-Wed Jan 13

A1 v B2

B1 v A2

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

ENGLAND

Top Premiership Team Standings:

45 Chelsea (20 played) - Next: at Hull postponed due to bad weather

43 Manchester United (20 played) - Next: Sat Jan 9 at Birmingham

41 Arsenal (19 played) - Next: Sat Jan 9 v Everton

37 Tottenham (20 played) - Next: at Liverpool postponed due to bad weather

35 Manchester City (19 played) - Next: Mon Jan 11 v Blackburn

35 Aston Villa (20 played) - Next: at Wigan postponed due to bad weather

33 Liverpool (20 played) - Next: v Tottenham postponed due to bad weather

SPAIN

Top La Liga Team Standings (after 16 played) & Next Matches:

40 Barcelona - Next: Sun Jan 10 at Tenerife

38 Real Madrid - Next: Sun Jan 10 v Mallorca

32 Valencia - Next: Sun Jan 10 at Xerez

30 Mallorca - Next: Sun Jan 10 at Real Madrid

30 Sevilla - Next: Sat Jan 9 v Racing Santander

28 Deportivo La Coruna - Next: Sun Jan 10 v Osasuna

ITALY

Top Serie A Team Standings:

42 Inter - Next: Sat Jan 9 v Siena

34 Milan - Next: Sun Jan 10 at Juventus

33 Juventus - Next: Sun Jan 10 v Milan

30 Napoli - Next: Sun Jan 10 v Sampdoria

29 Roma - Next: Sat Jan 9 v Chievo Verona

28 Parma - Next: Sun Jan 10 at Livorno

PODCASTS/VIDEOCASTS

Our main man Shawn Francis at MLS Insider talks to Robbie Russell, that's MLS Cup PK winner Robbie Russell to you and me, who talks a lot about the new regime for the New York Red Bulls - he knows the coach from his days playing in Scandinavia, and NYRB Tech Director Eric Soler was Russell's agent.
