-Today's Blogosphere American Soccer Award from Climbing The Ladder is Young Player of the Year.

Here is who I voted for:

1- Clint Dempsey

2- Ramon Nunez

3- Ricardo Clark

-Massive MLS Quarterfinals this weekend (second-leg matches) Watch em and weep!

Saturday

New England v Metrostars 7pm on Fox Soccer Channel (Metros lead 1-0)

Dallas v Colorado 730pm on Direct Kick (Teams tied 0-0)

San Jose v Los Angeles 9pm on Fox Soccer Channel (LA leads 3-1)

Sunday

DC v Chicago 330pm on ESPN2 (Teams tied 0-0)

-According to Yanks Abroad: Claudio Reyna looks set to miss the USA clash with Scotland following the results of a scan on his injured knee and ankle. The midfielder reportedly suffered a 'jarred knee and ankle' (editors note: ya gotta love the English medical terms like this, and my fave, "dead leg"). According to the club, Reyna will be out of action 'for a few weeks', which makes the US skipper a serious doubt for the November 12th friendly at Hampden Park. Man City press officer Vicky Kloss confirmed that the Blues ace will not require surgery and has not sustained ligament damage to his knee as previously thought.

-Did you know: Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich is the Governor of the Russian Region of Chukotka, which is across the Bering Strait from Alaska.

-Chicago rookie striker Chris Rolfe lives in the same building with 9 of his Fire teammates. "Zach Thornton lives on the top floor. Because most of us are rookies and newer guys, we call him Den Mother."

-There was a visitor at du Nord yesterday from Slough, England. I wonder who it was? Could it have possibly been David Brent? Or maybe Tim, Gareth, Keith, or perhaps even Dawn? Holy shit! Maybe it was Finchy!

-EPL Table before this weekends matches:

28 Chelsea (10 games played)

19 Charlton (9 gp)

19 Tottenham (10 gp)

19 Wigan (9 gp)

18 Man United (9 gp)

17 Man City (10 gp)

17 Bolton (10 gp)

16 Arsenal (9 gp)

15 West Ham (9 gp)

14 Blackburn (10 gp)

12 Newcastle (10 gp)

12 Middlesbrough (10 gp)

10 Liverpool (8 gp)

9 Fulham (10 gp)

9 Aston Villa (10 gp)

8 West Brom (10 gp)

7 Portsmouth (10 gp)

6 Birmingham (10 gp)

5 Sunderland (10 gp)

4 Everton (9 gp)

-Hot games to watch in Europe this weekend then:

Tottenham v Arsenal - the North London Derby, the real deal, with actual hatred! But without Thierry Henry who is hurt again.

Milan v Juventus - the biggie of all Italiano biggies!

Hamburg SV v Schalke 04 - #3 v #4

-I saw my high school, Lourdes, play last night in the State Championship Quarterfinals v St Thomas Academy. They lost 2-0. They were 19-1-1 going into last nights match, and their supposed best player had missed the entire season with a broken leg. But this is how it goes. Several of the players cried. Its a brutal world. Especially when you don't convert your excellent chances and the other team does. The two teams seemed about dead even in talent to me. My toes got really cold.

-The most interesting part of the Bruce Arena Podcast from US Soccer is when someone asks him about Jay Heaps and Daniel Hernandez being on the roster for USA v Panama, and whether or not them being New England players and the game being played in Boston was a matter of convenience. Arena's answer was something to the affect of, "You are getting very warm." Which I take to mean that they would not have been selected if not for their proximity to that game, and their future chances are slim for team USA. Go ahead and cross them off your list, if they were ever on it.

-The guest next Monday night on Maradona's TV show La Noche del 10 will be none other than Fidel Castro. Last week on the show Maradona played chess against the old Russian Grandmaster Anatoly Karpov (who played blindfolded!!!!). The match was a draw. Naturally. I mean, you wouldn't expect either one to ever lose at anything, now would you. Not on TV anyway.

-Two English players, J Lloyd Samuel of Aston Villa & Bobby Zamora of West Ham, are putting their names in the hat for Trinidad & Tobago. Both are of Trinidadian decent, and have said they would be willing to play for T&T in the World Cup Playoff next month against Bahrain. Neither had played for T&T before now, cuz they thought they had a chance to play for England. Would you call them in?

-Real Salt Lake plays Chivas USA tonite in a friendly at Rice Eclles Stadium in Salt Lake City.

-Also, 3 RSL players, Jay Nolly, Kenny Cutler & You Dive Like Jamie Watson, are going to head for Germany to train with Steve Cherundolo at Hannover.

-From the International Herald Tribune: Djorkaeff comes full circle by Christopher Clarey

-Ronnie O'Brien feature in the Dallas Morning News by Steve Davis.

-Mexcian First Division games this weekend:

Saturday

Atlante v Chiapas

Tigres v Toluca

Dorados v Tecos

Guadalajara v Morelia

Veracruz v Cruz Azul

Necaxa v Pachuca

Sunday

Pumas v America

San Luis v Monterrey

Santos v Atlas

-ADDITION: They are on the verge of civil war in the Canadian soccer community over the Canadian Soccer Associations backing of Toronto for MLS. The 3 USL teams (Montreal, Toronto & Vancouver) are pissed.
