It's Day 135 of 2017.

44 goals scored this week in MLS. WooooooHooooooo! I love it.

dN

Chelsea are English Premier League champions. Huge congrats to them.

dN

It was high drama in the Netherlands as Ajax choked on the last day of the Eredivisie season which let Feyenoord leap over them and claim the championship. Huge congrats to Feyenoord.

Feyenoord won the title for the first time in 18 years!

Good ol' Dirk Kuijt was the hero with all 3 goals.

Another old boy Giovanni van Bronckhorst is the Feyenoord coach.

Rotterdam partied hard! From Dutch News.

Final round results:

-Sun May 14

AZ 2-3 Utrecht

Feyenoord 3-1 Heracles

dN

The heinous fiends ruling/destroying Syria with an iron fist dipped in sulfur, cyanide and sarin have done an equally horrifying number on their national soccer team. By Steve Fairnaru for the New York Times.

dN

Special Minnesota United stat alert: Loons no longer with worst goal differential in the league at -11. Real Salt Lake is at -13.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Results:

-Sat May 13

Toronto 3-2 Minnesota - Tor goals by Sebastian Giovinco(PK), Christian Ramirez(OG) + Tosaint Ricketts. MU goals both by Kevin Molino(1 via PK).

My MNUFC Notes:

Game highlights [VIDEO]

Lets start here: this game was going to be next to impossible to win or tie. OK. Toronto is THAT good.

A decent game for the Loons on the road at Toronto. No complaints there. Good effort. Twice tying the game. They did better than was expected. Etc.

But honestly when you look back they could have had more. They should have gotten a tie. Seriously.

Toronto was beatable on this day. They were as tired as tired can be. Ripe for the pickin.

In pro soccer giving max effort but not getting a point on the road is just not good enough. Its not a so-called "moral victory."

Molino had 2 goals and a better game than the past few weeks. He responded to the criticism. Nice to see.

Minnesota kept falling behind, and twice they answered, which was via that effort, but they could not come back a third time.

A horrible tackle by Danladi giving away the first goal via PK. Which Giovinco converted.

Then that first Molino goal! It was awesome.

Just after halftime Ibson put a great pass to Danladi who then slipped Molino through and Hotboy smashed it high and to the near post - impossible for the keeper to stop. Again, just an awesome goal.

Hell, lets watch it!

Moments after tying it at 1-1 though the Loons gave up a 2nd goal. Brutal.

On a set piece Ramirez and Chris Mavinga battled for the cross at the back post but the ball hit and went in off CR.

I wonder in the future when they use Video Assistant Referee if that goal might be disallowed cuz Mavinga was all over Ramirez's back - looked close to a foul to me.

Molino tied it a 2nd time, but this one was very lucky. After a handball call, Molino took a terrible PK that keeper Alex Bono parried right back to Molino who popped in the rebound. Bad PK - great luck - nice finish.

Both Danladi and JVenegas blew great chances to score.

In the first half Ibarra put Danladi through on goal but he shot too quick, trying to go near post and wasn't even close to goal.

JVenegas has had 2 poor games in a row followed up by a rotten week of training, including getting sent home for 2 days. But there was no punishment from the coach as JV traveled to Toronto and then came on as a sub.

So how did JV repay his generous manager? He played very poorly, weak runs, sloppy passing, and worst of all missing a wide open header 8 yards from goal, managing to put it 6 yards wide of goal. Seems impossible to miss that badly.

Again the team was plagued by a poor sub pattern used way too late.

How is it possible that Warner and Jome are preferred subs over Schuller and Kadrii. (Kadrii not even in 18.) I am gonna have to write about this bag of stiffs from Europe tomorrow.

Gionvino subbed out in first half with thigh injury.

Toronto brought on Jozy Altidore. What a monster that guy has become.

He made the game winner happen by beating 3 MU defenders, especially Brent Kallman who got manhandled, never giving up on the play, then getting to the end line and crossing to Ricketts who also overpowered MU defenders to head home the goal.

MN didn't seem ready for Toronto's 5 man midfield. They had no answers for it in 1st half, constantly just clearing the ball or lumping it long. That is not a strategy.

You cannot give up 3 goals and expect to win. Can't happen.

We did not see enough from Ibarra. Come on dude, this team needs you!

Ramirez tried his best to hold up the ball and get teammates into the game, but those teammates gave him no return service whatsoever.

Shuttleworth played the game with a mask and seemed a step slow on several plays. Not sure if he could have stopped any of the goals, but he seemed quite a bit off.

You have to think that wearing the Hannibal mask was a big bother for Jesus Shuttlesworth.

Ibson though, yeah, he is good.

Heard a lot of complaints about the numbers on those white uniforms too. People can't read em on TV at all. Not one bit. Get it fixed.

Now, right on cue, the next opponent for Minnesota picked themselves up off the scrap heap - LA with a dominant 1-3 road win at Red Bulls. Not what Minn wanted to see headed their way.

MN must beat LA next weekend!

Based on the competition this week and ahead its possible that the Loons could be looking at a run of 4 losses in a row; TFC, LA, Orl and KC. Then the break. Time for the team to dig extra deep.

Post game media:

Match report. By Mike Koreen for the Star Tribune.

Molino grabs 2 goals. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Match report. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Match report. By Bill Stenross for Fifty Five One.

TFC was running on fumes but got the job done. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

Next Schedule/Results:

-Sun May 21

Minnesota v LA - 4:00pm CT on ESPN.

dN

MLS

My MLS Notes:

Toronto are kings of the hill. 6 wins in a row and 3 in 8 days.

Three rotten teams, Philly, LA and Colorado, had huge wins after horrible starts to the season.

RSL is so decimated with injuries that only 14 players were in uniform at New England. Oof.

Dallas still unbeaten.

Chicago keeps getting better and better, especially at home.

Justin Meram of Columbus will probably be named Player Of The Week.

Post-round media:

6 takeaways. By Caitlin Murray for Fox Sports.

The Week 11 analytics. By Matthew Doyle for MLS.

The MLS XI. By Alexander Abnos for Sports Illustrated.

Things you shouldn't miss from Week 11. By Charles Boehm for MLS.

Week 11 Scores:

-Wed May 10

Columbus 1-2 Toronto

-Fri May 12

Houston 2-1 Vancouver

-Sat May 13

Toronto 3-2 Minnesota

Colorado 3-0 San Jose

Montreal 2-3 Columbus

DC 0-4 Philadelphia

Orlando 2-2 Kansas City

New England 4-0 Salt Lake

Chicago 4-1 Seattle

-Sun May 14

Portland 1-1 Atlanta

NYRB 1-3 LA

Dallas 1-1 NYC

44 goals in 12 games = 3.7 gpg.

dN

USMNT

The USA is expecting to play all 5 home World Cup qualifiers in MLS team stadiums. Bruce Arena thinks this is the best chance to win. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Fabian Johnson returned from injury for Gladbach. He played the final 24 min as they tied 1-1 at Wolfsburg.

Joe Corona went the full 90 and set up the 1st goal for Tijuana as they won 2-0 over Morelia and advanced to the semis in Mexico.

Paul Arriola was on the bench but didn't play for Tijuana

After their defense got torched for 4 goals in the 1st Leg Jorge Villafana was not in the gameday 18 for a 2nd Leg win, but not enough goals made up to advance. They are out.

Tim Ream and Danny Williams both went 90 as their teams tied 1-1 in the 1st Leg of the English Championship division promotion playoffs.

Alfredo Morales and Ingolstadt were relegated out of the Bundesliga.

Bobby Wood and Hamburger must defeat Wolfsburg in the seasons final game next week if they want to avoid the pro-rel playoff series to stay in the Bundesliga.

dN

English Championship division promotion playoffs:

1st Leg

-Sat May 13

Fulham 1-1 Reading Tim Ream v Danny Williams

-Sun May 14

Huddersfield 0-0 Sheff Wed - David Wagner coaches Hud.

2nd Leg

-Tue May 16

Reading v Fulham

-Wed May 17

Sheff Wed v Huddersfield

dN

LIGA MX PLAYOFFS

Tijuana advanced with Joe Corona playing a key role, but now they get the most on-fire team in the league Tigres in the Semifinals. Good luck to them.

Clausura Liguilla Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

Leg 2

-Sat May 13

Monterrey(2) 0-2 Tigres(7) - Tig advances 6-1 on aggregate.

Toluca(4) 1-3 Santos Laguna(5) - Tol advances 5-4 on aggregate.

-Sun May 14

Tijuana(1) 2-0 Morelia(8) - Tij advances 2-1 on aggregate.

Guadalajara(3) 1-0 Atlas(6) - series ends tied 1-1 and Gua advances as higher seed.

Semifinals Schedule/Results:

Leg 1

-Thu May 18

Toluca(4) v Guadalajara(3) - 7:30pm?

Tigres(7) v Tijuana(1) - 9:30pm?

Leg 2

-Sun May 21

Guadalajara(3) v Toluca(4) - 6:00pm?

Tijuana(1) v Tigres(7) - 8:00pm?

dN

BIG GAMES IN EUROPE:

-Sat May 13

Leipzig 4-5 Bayern - a wild game leaves them at #2 + #1 (Leip lead 4-2 in 83rd min)

-Sun May 14

Roma 3-1 Juventus - Rom moves to #2 and 4 pts behind #1 Juv with 2 games left to play

Real Madrid 4-1 Sevilla - still #2 + #4 but RM is on track to win title with 1 game in hand on leader Bar.

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from this weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

dN

La Liga Title Race - Final games:

87 Barcelona (1 game left) (Barca has tiebreaker of head-to-head points 4-1)

87 Real Madrid (2 games left)

-Wed May 17

Celta de Vigo v Real Madrid

-Sun May 21

Barcelona v Eibar

Malaga v Real Madrid

dN

Serie A Title Race - Final games:

(2 games left)

85 Juventus (+46)

81 Roma (+49)

80 Napoli (+50)

-Sat May 20

Chievo v Roma

Napoli v Fiorentina

-Sun May 21

Juventus v Crotone

-Sun May 28

Roma v Genoa

Bologna v Juventus

Sampdoria v Napoli

dN

VIRTUALLY OVER: Ligue 1 Title Race - Final games:

89 Monaco (2 games left) (+73)

86 PSG (1 game left) (+56)

-Wed May 17

Monaco v Saint Etienne

-Sat May 20

PSG v Caen

Rennes v Monaco

The Bird Is The Word
