It's Day 47 of 2017.

Carli Lloyd is going to play part of this year for Manchester City. Its a deal that happened quickly and simply. By Andrew Das of the New York Times.

She will return to Houston Dash later in the year.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED PRESEASON

Another friendly last night in which Minn took the lead and gave it up. Leading 2-0 early in the 2nd half over Real Salt Lake they began to fall apart and eventually trailed 2-3 very late in the game. But with the final kick of the game JVenegas scored again and tied it at 3-3. Success on some level. Failure on another.

Oof: Minnesota traded forward Femi Hollinger-Janzen back to New England (acquired from the Revs in Expansion Draft) in exchange for goalkeeper Bobby "Mr Buttersworth" Shuttleworth. Horrific move.

This appears to be legit:

Another MLS kit has leaked and this time it's Minnesota United https://t.co/uTWshgPGFr pic.twitter.com/1kxgaQFfgn

— Chris Creamer (@sportslogosnet) February 16, 2017

Official launch of 2 uniforms is on Friday night for Minnesota. Again I am confused by their marketing as a Friday night launch basically ensures they will get minimal pop that night and little to no residual effect the days after (Sat + Sun.)

Matches + Results:

Portland Invitational

-Thu Feb 9

MNUFC 1-1 Vancouver Whitecaps - MU goal by VW Own Goal.

-Sun Feb 12

MNUFC 2-2 Portland Timbers - MU goals both by Johan Venegas.

-Wed Feb 15

MNUFC 3-3 Real Salt Lake - MU goals by Kevin Molino (2) + Johan Venegas.

Game highlights [VIDEO]

My Notes:

Starters - McLain, Taylor, Demidov, Calvo, Davis, Warner, Schuller, Molino, JVenegas, Ibarra, Ramirez.

Subs - Kadrii for Ibarra, KVenegas for Taylor, Saeid for Warner, Ibson for Ramirez, Starikov for Schuller.

Did not play - Greenspan, Martin, Danladi, Kallman, Anor, Jome.

Goals - Molino from JVenegas, Molino from Ramirez, JVenegas from Starikov.

Vadim Demidov was the captain.

Good - the first string offense. with 4 full time attackers - Ibarra/Kadrii, JVenegas, Molino and Ramirez were very very good. And Schuller and Warner behind them kept it really simple.

Bad - switching from 4-2-3-1 to 4-3-3. They whole game went down the drain the minute this change was made. Uncanny. End of Story.

RSL - Minn got torched by The Vasectomy!

Match reports:

Kyle Nelson - Fifty Five One

Megan Ryan - Star Tribune

Andy Greder - Pioneer Press

Training camp roster (30):

G: John Alvbage, Marco Carducci (trialist), Patrick McLain, Bobby Shuttleworth.

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (trialist), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Joe Greenspan, Alvin Jones (trialist), Brent Kallman, Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Thomas de Villardi (unsigned draft pick)

M: Bernardo Anor, Joshua Gatt, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Ismaila Jome, Bashkim Kadrii, Collin Martin, Kevin Molino, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schuller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson (unsigned draft pick), Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, Christian Ramirez, Johan Venegas

Next the team heads to Orlando for the final 2 preseason games:

-Wed Feb 22

MU v Toronto

-Sun Feb 26

MU v San Antonio (USL)

dN

Unaffiliated: du Nord Music Mix Vol 112 (download + extract)

dN

Jack White's Third Man Records is opening a vinyl pressing plant in Detroit, and a special party is planned for Feb 25. The highlight is the limited edition records that will be sold that day - all incredible music from Detroit. Limited edition vinyl pressings from:

White Stripes

The Stooges

MC5

Destroy All Monsters

Carl Craig

Derrick May

and more!

dN

New York Red Bulls have fired technical director Ali Curtis. This has been rumored since mid January and was announced today. No reason has leaked out as to what went wrong. He helped turn the team inside out and make it even stronger than before. He also hired successful coach Jesse Marsch. An odd one. I am sure the tale will be told eventually.

No word on whether or not he took his 300 page ring binder with him.

dN

USMNT U20s at the CONCACAF Championship and U20 World Cup qualifying

Feb 17 to Mar 5 in Costa Rica.

First USA game is on Sat Feb 18.

Tournament format: 3 initial groups. Top 2 from each group advances to a 2nd group stage consisting of 2 groups of 3. The top 2 teams in each of those groups advances to the U20 World Cup, and winners of those 2 groups playing for the CONCACAF Championship on Mar 3.

USA roster:

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown

D: Marlon Fossey - Fulham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City, Auston Trusty - Philadelphia Union

M: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Coy Craft - Dallas, Luca De la Torre - Fulham, Jonathan Gonzalez - Monterrey, Jeremiah Gutjahr - Indiana U, Jonathan Lewis - New York City, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - Las Palmas

C: Tab Ramos

Group B Matches:

-Sat Feb 18

USA v Panama at 3pm CT

-Tue Feb 21

USA v Haiti at 4:30pm CT

-Fri Feb 24

USA v St Kitts + Nevis at 4:30pm CT

Games broadcast on Univision networks.

Group A: Mexico, Antigua + Barbuda, Honduras, Canada

Group B: USA, Panama, St Kitts + Nevis, Haiti

Group C: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Bermuda, Trinidad + Tobago

dN

Fabian Johnson started and went 77 minutes as Gladbach lost 0-1 to Fiorentina in Europa League today.

Another American Josh Perez was not in the gameday 18 for Fiore.

dN

American Terrence Boyd is trying to make an injury comeback with lowly Darmstadt and is off to a good start. By Franco Panizo of SBI.

dN

This happens so often now days that it seems like its barely a story - but in reality almost always a very good story - lets read about an 18 year old Texan trying to turn pro in Mexico at Santos Laguna. By Tom Marshall of ESPNFC.

dN

UEFA Champions League

A review of yesterday's games via words, photos, audio + video: Bayern v Arsenal - AND - Real Madrid v Napoli. From UEFA.

Round of 16 Matches:

1st Leg

-Tue Feb 14

PSG 4-0 Barcelona

Benfica 1-0 Dortmund

-Wed Feb 15

Bayern 5-1 Arsenal

Real Madrid 3-1 Napoli

-Tue Feb 21

Leverkusen v Atletico

Man City v Monaco

-Wed Feb 22

Porto v Juventus

Sevilla v Leicester

dN

Up Next in Liga MX:

-Sat Feb 18

Monterrey v Pachuca - #5 v #3

Guadalajara v America - the Classico

-Sun Feb 19

Pumas v Tijuana - #7 v #2

dN

Biggest European matches this weekend:

-Sat Feb 18

Hertha Berlin v Bayern Munich

The Bird Is The Word
