We made a list before the season started of 30 MLS players who we felt had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

30 breakout players for 2013: Week 2

Juan Agudelo - played the whole game, scored his first goal of the season, badly needed by CUSA.

Alex - came on as sub in 65th min but his team was doing nothing.

Eric Avila - came on as sub in the 57th min and helped jump-start the Chivas attack that led to 3 goals and a win.

Steve Beitashour - still out injured.

Jerry Bengston - went the full 90, scored his first goal of the season on a nice short downward header.

Claudio Bieler - scored his 2nd goal in 2 games and went the full 90.

Alex Caskey - bye week.

Michael Farfan - started and played 78 min.

Gabriel Farfan - came off the bench for the last 26 min.

Diego Fagundez - came on as a sub in the 79th min, stirred it up with Chicago defenders, getting under their skin and earning a yellow card.

Perry Kitchen - solid game in the middle. Kept RSL's attack from ever really getting going.

Mikey Lopez - did not suit up.

Darren Mattocks - played 67 average minutes for a team that was cooking on offense.

Kenny Miller - helped lead a very potent attack and was rewarded for hard work by taking a ball off a defenders feet 35 yds out and racing in on goal to score. Played 90.

Mario Martinez - bye week.

Jack McInerney - played the full match and scored the game winner.

Kekuta Mennah - on the bench but did not play.

Justin Meram - on the bench but did not play.

Amobi Okugo - went 90 at center back and scored the first goal of the game on a corner kick header.

Martin Rivero - out injured.

Oriol Uri Rosell - went the full 90 and was solid.

Kelyn Rowe - came on in the 53rd min and set up the games only goal with a beautiful chip over the defense. Really good game.

Chris Schuler - good solid partnership with Watson-Siriboe that did not allow DC many chances at all.

Luis Silva - still out injured.

AJ Soares - went the distance with a solid performance.

Bakary Soumare - on the bench but did not play.

Zarek Valentin - not in uniform.

Diego Valeri - a lot of possession and really ran the ship, but not with the same dramatic effect as on week 1.

Jose Villareal - bye week.

Sal Zizzo - out injured.
