dN

The long talked about (nearly 20 years) Neil Young rarities collections have finally started rolling out. This stuff has been on and off the Reprise Records releases schedule so many times its pathetic. But reality has finally come. Archives Volume 1: 1963-1972 is out now. And if you are a Neil Young fan, then go to your local record seller (don't buy it online - go to your locally owned independent store and give them your money) and buy this immediately. I will have mine ready for the drive this weekend!

Are you ready for the country?

TEAM AMERICA

Well, that was a pure bred stink bomb. Just ugly & timid. Can you say much else? Did you really expect anything else. I sure didn't. That doesn't mean I am not disappointed, but I am not going to go screaming for the coaches head and crap like that. To me, people who take that route just don't seriously look at the history of US Soccer and CONCACAF. No, I am not complacent either, but I don't have the solution and neither do you.

dN

du Nord 3 Stars of the Game:

3. Jozy Altidore - USA

2. Bryan Ruiz - Costa Rica

1. Walter Centaneo - Costa Rica

-What can you say about that Costa Rican duo! They just tore the game up. Really impressive skill. A different style than say Barcelona, but equally pleasing to watch. Great stuff guys. Now go destroy Mexico and Honduras too.

-Being a complete homer I had to put one American on my list, and him, Tim-may and Lando were the only ones who remotely qualified. Jozy wins due to effort for 90 minutes.

dN

My Thoughts:

-I think just about all of us USA fans wish we could have been Costa Rica fans for the night. What a display they put on.

-I have no idea why Jose Francisco Torres was subbed off at half time. To me he had as much poise, if not more, on the ball in the first half than any other USA player. I was floored to see him come off and Mastroeni stay on.

-When the USA went forward there were never enough attackers. When the USA defended there were never enough stoppers. Where the hell was everyone on the field?? Completely baffling! It looked like 8 v 11 at times.

-Michael Bradley earned another Yellow Card which means he will have to sit out one match. The card was a real joke of a call.

-Yeah it sucked. Move on to Saturday and make it work.

dN

USA World Cup Qualifying Matches:

-Wed Jun 3 - Matchday 4

Costa Rica 3-1 USA - CR goals by Alvaro Saborio, Celso Borges & Pablo Herrera. USA goal by Landon Donovan(PK).

Venue: Estadio Ricardo Saprissa - San Jose Costa Rica

-Sat Jun 6 - Matchday 5

USA v Honduras - from Soldier Field in Chicago IL - 7pm Central on ESPN & Galavision (see you there!)

Venue: Soldier Field - Chicago IL

dN

Match report by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

USA player grades by Mahoney.

Match analysis by Jack Bell & Andrew Das on the New York Times Goal blog.

USA player ratings by Beau Dure of USA Today on his blog The Netminder.

Match report by Ives Galarcep at ESPN Soccernet.

Match report from the Washington Post.

More notes from the Wa Post blog Soccer Insider.

Match report from Yanks Abroad.

dN

I have to admit, I am stunned to see this today: Wall Street Journal does a Minute-by-minute report of the game. Huh? What is going on in the newspaper world?

dN

Official Blog

MLS

Week 12 Matches:

-Thu Jun 4

DC United v New York Red Bulls - 6:30pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

-Fri Jun 5

Chicago Fire v Houston Dynamo - 8pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

-Sat Jun 6

Toronto FC v Los Angeles Galaxy - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Kansas City Wizards v Columbus Crew - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Real Salt Lake v Colorado Rapids - 9pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Chivas USA v Seattle Sounders FC - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Sun Jun 7

FC Dallas v San Jose Earthquakes - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

New England Revolution v New York Red Bulls - 5pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

dN

I have been saying this since Toronto FC announced their first ever roster of players, and I have kept saying it since, and nothing has changed at all - They are very weak in the defense, especially at centerback. Yes they have changed the names, but not the quality. And anyone who can't see that does not know this league at all. IT'S THE DEFENSE DUMMY!

dN

Ryan Johnston of SportsNet says TFC must do good in their upcoming homestand, or else.....

dN

The Kansas City Star with an article on Wizards still-high-quality goalkeeper Kevin Hartman.

-And an update on long injured forward Adam Christman.

dN

The Everett Herald Net with an article on their local boy Nate Jaqua of Seattle.

dN

Brian Lewis of the New York Post looks at the New York Red Bulls upcoming long road test.

dN

Greg Johns of the Seattle Post Intelligencer talks to Sounders midfielder Pete Vagenas who thinks the Sounders have what it takes to be a special team.

dN

John Connolly of the Boston Herald with an article on New England's long time versatile stalwart defender Jay Heaps.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News looks at RSL forward Yura Movsisyan who did not pick up this season where he left off last year.

dN

The Colorado Examiner has rumors on 2 Rapids players and a potential new signing.

USL FIRST DIVISION

Matches:

-Thu Jun 4

Puerto Rico Islanders v Cleveland City Stars

Portland Timbers v Montreal Impact

-Fri Jun 5

Austin Aztex v Charleston Battery

-Sat Jun 6

Rochester Rhinos v Minnesota Thunder

Puerto Rico Islanders v Cleveland City Stars

-Sun Jun 7

Austin Aztex v Charleston Battery

Vancouver Whitecaps v Montreal Impact

SOCCER IN AMERICA

The Roar (of Australia) gives us an article with a title like this: "Despite the indifference, football is thriving in America". How can you not like that!

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

The Miami Herald with an article spelling the end of Freddy Adu, calling him the star that fell to earth.

dN

Soccer 365 with a nice article on the past, present and future of Charlie Davies.

dN

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 is the man who always has the best info on our players moving in Europe, and he has info on possible new teams for Charlie Davies - and - DaMarcus Beasley.

CONCACAF

World Cup Qualifying Standings (after 3 of 10 rounds):

9 Costa Rica (4 played)

7 USA (4 played)

4 Honduras

3 Mexico

2 El Salvador

2 Trinidad & Tobago

CANADA

There is rumor of a friendly this summer in Edmonton between Everton of England and River Plate of Argentina on July 25.

CENTRAL AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN

FIFA.com talks to El Salvador & New York Red Bulls fullback Alfredo Pacheco about his countries upcoming qualifiers. They host Mexico and travel to Honduras for their games on Saturday and next Wednesday.

ENGLAND

Amy Lawrence of the Guardian feels that Chelsea ownership seems ready to make a new all out push for glory next season.

dN

Marina Hyde of the Guardian looks at clubs new obsession - "handlers" for their players. When I was a little child I had one of those around, they were called baby sitters.

EUROPE

Gazzetta has quotes from Milan owner & Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi who says that he knows the tactics the team must use to win, and last season they did not listen to him.

dN

Pitch Invasion has a great photographic look at Munich's architectural marvel - Alianz Arena. Home to both 1860 and Bayern.

dN

Football Italia with an article on Inter's surprising young fullback Davide Stanton, and the very good first season he had.

AFRICA

This Day with an editorial on just how much Nigeria's need to qualify for the World Cup.

CONFEDERATIONS CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2009

FIFA.com with an article on a lesser known city that is host Confed Cup and World Cup games - Rustenburg.

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Jun 3

Tanzania 2-1 New Zealand

Bahrain 4-0 Jordan

Antigua 2-1 Barbuda v Guyana

-Thu Jun 4

China 1-4 Saudi Arabia

-Fri Jun 5

Czech Republic v Malta

France v Turkey

Syria v Sierra Leone

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian writes that even the most attack minded of players must be able to defend these days.

ENDERS

Our friend Graham from Advantage Played will be filling in for me here at du Nord on Friday while I make my way to Chicago for a double header weekend - Fire v Houston Dynamo on Friday night, and USA v Honduras on Saturday night. See you there?
