Oguchi Onyewu has become a member of Newcastle United Football Club. For now. He has signed with them on loan from his club Standard until the end of the season. The plan is for it to become a full transfer at that time, but that is not written in stone. Newcastle manager Glenn Roeder comments.

Michael Lewis & Dylan Butler at Big Apple Soccer with a story saying the New York Red Bulls are chasing after DaMarcus Beasley and John O'Brien!

Tonight's Soccer Hour with Glenn Davis radio show features guest Marc Cuban, owner of HDNET (which broadcasts a weekly MLS game) and the Dallas Mavericks NBA team. He is a guy with a billion dollars, a million ideas, and even more opinions. This could be really good. I am curious as to what he knows and thinks about soccer. Catch the show locally in Houston at 7pm central time on 790 AM radio, or via the internet at 790 The Sports Animal. You can call in to the show at 713-212-5790. The Houston Chronicle will have an archived podcast of the show in a couple of days.

Matias Donnet will not be back with DC United this season. He has gone back to Argentine and signed with Belgrano.

Andrea Canales with a nice lil rumor tip on her Sideline Views blog - both LA & NY will be flying to games on private chartered planes.

Another hot gossip note from Luis Arroyave at The Red Card: Frenchman Pascal Bedrossian was not only NOT cut by Chicago during the off-season, but they think he is ready to be a real contributor. Who even remembered him?

In more Salt Lake madness, RSL owner Dave Checketts did a conference call with reporters yesterday to clarify his team's stance on failed stadium proposals.

-City officials say no, but others in the area might say yes to a different stadium deal. From the Deseret Morning News.

-The D News also talks to players about the mess. Chris Klein in particular has seen this all before in Kansas City.

-Mostly I agree with Gordon Monson of the Salt Lake Tribune - ENOUGH ALREADY! SHUT THE HELL UP!

-But the best comes from a Big Soccer poster called Fuerza Real who ran into Jeff Cunningham at the Utah Jazz NBA game last night. Cunningham told the guy to "be positive"!

Steven Goff of the Washington Post on the first day of DC United preseason camp. He focuses the story on draft pick Ricky Schramm.

-And for all you DC United fanatics out there, you have to check out the newest Screaming Eagles podcast which features interviews from the first day of camp. Excellent as always.

Bernardo Fallas at the Houston Chronicle reports on the Houston's first day back as well.

-Fallas with a player specific article on Dwayne De Rosario.

Andrea Canales of the LA Soccer News says the Galaxy need to focus most on their defense if they are to succeed next season.

Well, the new owners in Kansas City are putting their money where their mouth is. How long will it last? From Bob Luder of the KC Star.

Dallas and Columbus will play a tribute match for Lamar Hunt - the Pioneer Cup - on March 11 at Pizza Hut Park in Dallas. Great move.

Chivas USA young midfielder Sacha Kljestan will be joined in LA this spring by his brother Gordon who was drafted by the LA Galaxy. From the Seton Hall newspaper, the Setonian.

Here are the actual game match ups for the MLS teams who need to qualify for the US Open Cup (dates to be determined):

Columbus v Los Angeles

Real Salt Lake v Kansas City

Should LA advance they will host the second round game

Should Columbus advance, New York will host the second round game

Should KC advance they will host the second round game

Should RSL advance, Colorado will host the second round game

So what is going on with Team USA as they prepare for Mexico on Feb 7?

-Read the team weblog.

-Andrea Canales talks to Pablo Mastroeni about the big game ahead.

-Canales does a Q & A with Taylor Twellman for Soccer 365.

-The incredibly busy Canales also talked to USA coach Bob Bradley about which European players he is hoping to have for next week. (Don't expect too many solid answers in this one.)

-Want some good old fashioned fluff? USA & DCU defender Bobby Boswell gives his tips for movie going.

I have written an article for Blue Sky Soccer on the status of players from last years Minnesota Thunder roster. Who will and won't be back? I talked to team management to get an update for the upcoming season.

Soccer America lists their Top 20 youth soccer clubs in the USA.

Luis Bueno at the Press Enterprise with a feature story on USA & Blackburn goalkeeper Brad Friedel, and his soccer academy being built in the Cleveland area.

Goal.com has an interview with American defender Jay DeMerit of Watford.

Americans in action in the Premiership & Bundesliga today and tomorrow:

Tuesday-

Sheffield United v Fulham

West Ham v Liverpeople

Reading v Wigan

Gladbach v Nurnberg

Wolfsburg v Eintracht

Wednesday-

Chelsea v Blackburn

Man United v Watford

Newcastle v Aston Villa

Hamburg v Cottbus

Hannover v Hertha

Ronaldo has made it official with Milan and Edgar Davids the same with Ajax. Ricardo Oliveira has been sent to Real Madird by Milan as a part of the Ronaldo deal.

-James Richardson at the Guardian says Ronny may be fat and slow but at 4 million Pounds he's a bargain.

-Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune on Ronaldo's chance for success at Milan.

-Ronaldo has scored an astounding 372 goals in 521 games for his club teams!

It's no surprise that the Beckham stories have had a huge impact on the increase in visitors to soccer websites. The website called Compete breaks it down with some statistical analysis and a few opinions on what this could mean for the future.

Paul Marshall at Soccernet writes about how ugly the fan boy scene has gotten at Paris Saint Germain. The Boulogne Boys gang are some very nasty fellows, and their violence led to one of their members being shot and killed by a policeman last fall.

Nike has offered the German football federation 600 million Euros to become their official kit suppliers, replacing Adidas. So what does Adi Dassler's company do to counter this offer?

Here is a story I missed while out having my appendix removed - one of my favorite players, the often injured and haunted Sebastian Diesler of Bayern Munich has decided to retire due to constant long term injuries. This is really sad to me on many levels. The first being his untapped talent. The second being his fight back, time and again, from injury. And thirdly for the rare admission by an athlete that he was fighting depression and staring down the stigma attached to it. I first came to know about him when he played with American Tony Sanneh at Hertha Berlin. He even visited the Twin Cities one time and I got to meet him. He was a very cool guy. We at du Nord wish him the best of luck in whatever he chooses to do next.
