STARTERS

The USA will play 2 games in the run up to the World Cup, starting with the Czech Republic on Tue May 25 (location TBA), and Turkey on Sat May 29 in Philadelphia at Lincoln Financial Field.

-Turkey has hired Guus Hiddink as they new head coach. He will take over the team after the World Cup as they head into Euro 2012 qualifying.

-My buddy Sasha says he heard the Czech game will be in Hartford CT.

dN

Freddy Adu has bagged another goal. Second game in a row for him. Aris won 3-0 in the Greek Cup. No Short Corners has the video.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The competition has resumed with the 1st Leg of the Round of 16!

-A variation to the format this year sees the matches spread out over 4 days instead of 2, giving more TV space for the teams.

dN

Matches & Scores - Round of 16 - 1st Leg:

-Tue Feb 16

Olympique Lyonnais 1-0 Real Madrid Club de Futbol - OL goal by Jean Makoun.

Associazione Calcio Milan 2-3 Manchester United Football Club - ACM goals by Ronaldinho & Clarence Seedorf. MUFC goals by Paul Scholes & Wayne Rooney(2).

-Wed Feb 17

Futebol Clube do Porto v Arsenal Football Club - Live at 1:30pm Central on FSC

Fussball-Club Bayern Munchen v Associazione Calcio Fiorentina e Florentia Viola - Delayed at 4:00pm Central on FSC

-Tue Feb 23

Verein fur Bewegungsspiele Stuttgart 1893 e. V v Futbol Club Barcelona

Olympiacos Club of Fans of Piraeus v Football Club des Girondins de Bordeaux

-Wed Feb 24

Football Club Internazionale Milano Societa per Azioni v Chelsea Football Club

Central Sports Army Club Moscow v Sevilla Futbol Club Sociedad Anonima Deportiva

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune on the Man U win.

QUOTE/FACT/STORY OF THE DAY

Houston Dynamo forward Luis Landin to Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet: "The level of soccer in this country has impressed me, from my first day in the league up until today. In Mexico we're all under the wrong impression that the level of soccer in the U.S. is low. However, that is definitely not the case. When you get here, you find out quickly that the level of play is very high. Does it need to improve still? Definitely, but the level of soccer is currently very good. When you come to MLS, you have to come ready to play." See full article below in MLS News section.

WHY?

The USL reports today that one of my favorite little known players could be in serious health problems. Marco Terminesi who currently is playing indoor with the Milwaukee Wave is thought to have a brain tumor, but ongoing tests will hopefully reveal the answer. He played last season for my Minnesota Thunder and was an instant fan favorite with his explosive speed, goal bound instincts and infectious attitude. I am sending out all the best for Marco, and ask you to do the same.

MLS NEWS

Center Line Soccer gives us an update from the San Jose Earthquakes preseason camp.

dN

The Chicago Tribune looks at how preseason is going for the Fire and their new head coach Carlos The Conch.

-Brian McBride: "The training as been organized for a whole different type of play — making sure we are moving the ball and keeping possession."

dN

Sam Stejskal of Chicago Now digs further into this idea of the Fire playing a new style and formation.

dN

Buzz Carrick of 3rd Degree gets Dallas coach Schellas Hyndman why they went to all the trouble of scouting and signing Ghanaian full back Aziz Ansah in December, only to cut him loose 2 months later.

dN

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet asks the question that is on the mind of many a Houston Dynamo fan: What is the future of high priced Luis Landin?

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

MLS has hired Greg Lalas (of Goal.com and Sports Illustrated) as Editor-In-Chief and Jonah Freedman (of Sports Illustrated) as Managing Editor of the official league website - MLSnet.com.

MLS RUMORS

Is Kansas City about to sign outside midfielder Igor Krostov? He is 22 and from Moldova. Any other info has been basically impossible to find. But we can learn all about him when the club makes it official.

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

Down The Byline, a KC Wiz fan blog, has unearthed some nice new stadium documents and details for their new digs.

-A little more update.

Lookin' good:

US SOCCER NEWS

Paul Gardner of Soccer America talks to newly reelected US Soccer President Sunil Gulati. This is Part 1.

TEAM USA

Yanks Abroad brings us up to speed on the ankle injury suffered by Benny Feilhaber.

-It looks like he will not play against the Netherlands on Mar 3.

dN

Centerback Clarence Goodson of Start in Norway has rejoined the team training in California for next weeks game. He is now the only non-MLS player on the roster. What does this mean for his World Cup chances. I would say they just went up.

dN

Official Team Blog

-Video interview with Brad Davis and Jeff Cunningham.

dN

Friendly Match & Score:

USA v El Salvador - 6pm Central on ESPN Classic

Venue: Raymond James Stadium - Tampa FL

NOTE: The USA U17 team will play the El Salvador U17 game that same day prior to the senior squads meeting.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Championship League

Kenny cooper - Plymouth Argyle - came on as a sub in the 61st minute as they drew 1-1 at home against Swansea City.

Jay DeMerit - Watford - Tue Feb 16 at Queens Park Rangers was postponed due to a "waterlogged pitch".

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - went the full 90 but lost at home 0-2 to Doncaster Rovers.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - came on as a sub in the 60th minute but they lost 1-2 at home to Walsall.

GREECE - League Cup - Quarterfinal - Replay

Freddy Adu - Aris - got the start, went 66 minute minutes and scoring another goal as they beat Xanthi at home 3-0.

Eddie Johnson - Aris - came on as a sub in the 76th minute as they won 3-0 at home over Xanthi.

SCOTLAND - League Cup

Maurice Edu - Rangers - went the full 90 as they won 1-0 at home over St Mirren.

UEFA - Europa League - Round of 32 - 1st Leg

Landon Donovan - Everton - went the distance as they beat Sporting at home 2-1. They second leg is in Lisbon.

Tim Howard - Everton - played the entire match as usual and beat Sporting at home 2-1.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Coming Up: - Mid-week matches

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - Thu Feb 18 v Santos Laguna

Herculez Gomez - Pueblo - Wed Feb 17 v San Luis

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - Wed Feb 17 v Guadalajara

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - Wed Feb 17 at Atlas

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Round of 32, 1st Leg happens this week with one game on Tue Feb 16 and the rest on Thu Feb 18. Here are the match-ups.

FRANCE

COUPE DE FRANCE - Round of 16

-Wed Feb 17

Lens 2-1 Brest

-Already advanced: PSG, Quevilly, Boulogne, Sochaux, Auxerre, Monaco & St Etienne.

dN

COUPE DE LA LIGUE - Semifinals

-Wed Feb 17

Lorient 1-4 Bordeaux

-Marseille has already advanced to the Final.

EUROPE

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian reviews Guus Hiddink's term in charge of Russia.

COPA LIBERTADORES

The Group Stage, which runs through to Apr 22.

dN

GROUP STAGE - February Matches & Scores:

-Tue Feb 16

Libertad 2-0 Blooming - Lib goals by Victor Caceres & Rodolfo Gamarra.

Colo Colo 1-0 Italia - CC goal by Esteban Paredes.

-Wed Feb 17

Universitario v Lanus

Cuenca v Banfield

-Thu Feb 18

Alianza v Estudiantes

Universidad v Caracas

dN

Standings:

Grupo 1

1 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay)

1 Independiente Medellin (Colombia)

Corinthians (Brazil)

Racing Club (Uruguay)

Grupo 2

3 Once Caldas (Colombia)

3 Sao Paulo (Brazil)

0 Nacional (Paraguay)

0 Monterrey (Mexico)

Grupo 3

3 Alianza Lima (Peru)

3 Estudiantes de la Plata (Argentina)

0 Bolivar (Bolivia)

0 Juan Aurich (Peru)

Grupo 4

6 Libertad (Paraguay) (2pd)

3 Universitario (Peru)

0 Lanus (Argentina)

0 Blooming (Bolivia) (2pd)

Grupo 5

3 Cerro (Uruguay)

0 Deportivo Quito (Ecudador)

Internacional (Brazil)

Emelec (Ecuador)

Grupo 6

3 Banfield (Argentina)

3 Club Nacional (Uruguay)

0 Morelia (Mexico)

0 Deportivo Cuenca (Ecudador)

Grupo 7

3 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

3 Colo Colo (Chile)

0 Cruzeiro (Brazil)

0 Deportivo Italia (Venezuela)

Grupo 8

Universidad de Chile (Chile)

Caracas FC (Venezuela)

Flamengo (Brazil)

Universidad Catolica (Chile)
