It's Day 293 of 2016.

FIFA Scandal Update: Aaron Davidson will plead guilty this week. Davidson was the Head of Traffic, a Brazilian soccer marketing company, in the USA. He was also chairman of the board of the NASL and Traffic was the owner of the Carolina RailHawks. Bribery was his game. From Reuters.

I met Aaron Davidson several times, and he could not have been nicer. A good guy as we would say. But there was always something about him that made me wary.

dN

Have you voted yet? https://t.co/795yUZQP4Y pic.twitter.com/v3lZr0T5s0

— Dark Clouds ? #DCMN (@MNDarkClouds) October 19, 2016

dN

USWNT friendly on Sunday in Minneapolis.

-Sun Oct 23

USA v Switzerland - 12:45pm CT on FS1 - US Bank Stadium

dN

Teem: du Nord Music Mix Vol 101 (download + extract)

dN

Mountain Singers - Spider Song

Spider Song ??#MountainSingers ?? #Eurorack????????#modularsynths #eurorackmodular #synthisizer

A video posted by Billy McGuire (@bill_mcguire) on Oct 17, 2016 at 2:46pm PDT

dN

Many of you know their is a strong connection between Surley Brewing and the soccer fans of Minnesota, and today we got the news that my friend and Surly brew master Todd Haug has left the company.

dN

The 3 Finalists for USL Coach Of The Year are very interesting names:

Marc Dos Santos, Swope Park Rangers

John Harkes, FC Cincinnati

John Wolyniec, New York Red Bulls II

dN

Some of the credit for Pep Guardiola's coaching abilities is given to a short period he spent in Mexico. By Rory Smith of the New York Times.

dN

NASL Week 27 Schedule:

Huge night for Miami, Tampa and Minnesota. Again.

-Wed Oct 19

Jacksonville v Miami

Tampa Bay v Indy

The race for NASL 4th Place:

41 Minnesota (+6 GD) (2 games left)

-----

41 OKC (+3 GD) (2 games left)

38 Tampa Bay (+1 GD) (3 games left)

38 Fort Lauderdale (-8 GD) (2 games left)

37 Miami (0 GD) (3 games left)

37 Carolina (-12 GD) (2 games left)

*Won Spring Season, automatically in playoffs

$Won Fall Season, automatically in playoffs

#Clinched a top 4 finish and a playoff spot

dN

Tonight is a big one for Portland Timbers. They host Saprissa in the CCL and must win to advance.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League - Big Games on Matchday 6:

Tigres won big last night at home and advance from Group G.

4 of 8 spots in the knock out stage are still up for grabs over the next two nights.

Advanced: Arabe Unido, New York Red Bulls, Tigres UANL, Vancouver Whitecaps

Eliminated: Sporting Kansas City, Monterrey

-Tue Oct 18

Tigres UANL 3-0 Herediano - For Advancement

-Wed Oct 19

Portland Timbers v Saprissa - For Advancement

Olimpia v Pachuca - For Advancement

-Thu Oct 20

Suchitepequez v Dallas - For Advancement

Pumas UNAM v W Connection - For Advancement

dN

UEFA Champions League - Big Teams on Matchday 3:

The really big clubs rolled, and I mean with extra steam, at home today!

-Wed Oct 19

Arsenal 6-0 Ludogorets

PSG 3-0 Basel

Barca 4-0 Manchester City

Rostov 0-1 Atletico Madrid

Bayern 4-1 PSV

Americans in the UCL:

Fabian Johnson - was not in uniform due to an unspecified injury as Gladbach won 0-2 at Celtic. Huge win though.

dN

Who from the USMNT is on the rise and in decline. I always find this list to be weirdly lacking. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

With Mauro Diaz out with a torn Achilles Dallas is in big trouble. Supporters Shield on the line this weekend, and then MLS playoffs. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

It also hurts them greatly that they didn't anticipate the departure of Fabian Castillo and have any one to replace him, and they never went out and found that killer forward they really needed to put them over the top. They are basically entering the playoffs without 3 of the most key roles on a soccer team.

dN

du Nord Futbol MLS club Hot List:

No bias

No previous placement

No preconceived notions

Just the run of form in the last 5 games:

01 DC United

02 New York Red Bulls

03 Colorado Rapids

04 Portland Timbers

05 New England Revolution

06 Seattle Sounders

07 Dallas

08 Montreal Impact

09 LA Galaxy

10 New York City

11 Columbus Crew

12 Sporting Kansas City

13 Vancouver Whitecaps

14 Chicago Fire

15 Orlando City

16 San Jose Earthquakes

17 Houston Dynamo

18 Toronto

19 Real Salt Lake

20 Philadelphia Union

My Notes On The Hot List:

Never thought we would see DC in this spot at seasons end.

Dallas is in trouble with the injury to Diaz.

Despite high placement New England is all but out of the playoff hunt.

Salt Lake is backing in the playoffs in really bad shape.

Philly is trying to Vikings their way into the postseason, and are stinking badly.

dN

MLS Goal Scoring Leaders:

23 Bradley Wright-Phillips

22 David Villa

17 Ignacio Piatti

16 Sebastian Giovinco

16 Dom Dwyer

16 Fadendo Adi

The Bird Is The Word
