It's Day 224 of 2016.

US Open Cup

A stunning comeback victory for Dallas on the road. Getting the winning goal in the dying seconds just before the teams went to a Penalty Kick Shootout.

Game Highlights [VIDEO]

The game ended 0-0 after 90, but we got fireworks in the 30 minutes of Added Extra Time in the form of 3 goals and lots of attacking.

In the end we saw LA's Ashley Cole defending the post on a set piece like Mike Burns did at the 98 World Cup - very poorly/not at all.

In a rematch Dallas will host New England in the Final on Sep 21. (NER beat FCD for the Open Cup title in 07!)

Semifinals Match Schedule:

-Tue Aug 9

New England Revolution 3-1 Chicago Fire - NER goals by Kei Kamara(PK), Je-Vaughn Watson + Teal Bunbury. CF goal by David Accam.

-Wed Aug 10

LA Galaxy 1-2 Dallas - LAG goal by Mike Magee(PK). Dal goals by Matt Hedges + Victor Ulloa.

dN

Women's Olympic Tournament

Quarterfinals Match Schedule:

-Fri Aug 12

USA v Sweden - 11am CT on NBCSN

Brazil v Australia

Germany v China

Canada v France

dN

Brazil finally busted loose in the Men's Olympic tournament after over 2 years of really bad soccer for the national team. They beat Denmark 4-0 to advance to the knock out stages.

Men's Olympic Tournament

Quarterfinals Match Schedule:

-Sat Aug 13

Portugal v Germany

Nigeria v Denmark

S Korea v Honduras

Brazil v Colombia

dN

Diego Valeri has signed a contract extension with Portland Timbers. Great move. He might be the best player in MLS right now.

dN

One of the few highlights for the Columbus Crew this season has been 2nd year fullback Harrison Afful from Ghana. And like many foreign players he really likes living in the USA. By Tom Reed of the Columbus Dispatch.

dN

The number of American youth players that are signing with pro teams instead of going to college is starting to sky rocket. The players earmarked as having significant quality are being snapped up by big European clubs. By Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker: Up Next - Fri Aug 12 at Gazelec Ajaccio

In Round 1 of the Coupe De La Ligue on Tue Aug 9 they traveled to Reims and came home 5-2 winners. In Round 2 they will face Chateauroux on Tue Aug 23 at home.

dN

"It’s not normal that we can win the league again. It’s more difficult than last season. It’s easier that ET comes to Piccadilly Circus." - Leicester City coach Claudio Ranieri.

dN

You ever heard more than one sentence from Spanish great Xavi Hernandes? Me neither. Here he explains the gift of Pep Guardiola. From the Guardian.

dN

$134 Million is the reported price that was wrung up at the cash register at Juventus when they sold Paul Pogba to Manchester United earlier this week. Wow.

The new Juventus stadium which opened in the Fall of 2011 cost $112M to build. Now its all paid for.

dN

English Premier League team-by-team season previews. From the Guardian:

Tottenham

Watford

(see previous day's blog entries for other team previews)

The Bird Is The Word
