It's Day 220 of 2017.

I received this email from my father on Sunday. He was referring to the Minnesota United game on Saturday night against Seattle. I have left the email unedited:

Subject: Last nights Game

From John McGuire

Time: 5:02 PM

Date: Sunday, August 6, 2017

To: Bruce

Ha Bruce;

Have your Coaches just look at the last two Games. Don't over analyse.

Look at the personnel. If they could just improve a little "average it out" what wold that do?

20,000 good attendance wasn't it. Probably the game that I should have came to.

Dad

dN

LAFC has made Mexican forward Carlos Vela their first big signing. Buying him from Real Sociedad. I assume the deal will start in January.

How will this work with notorious Vela butts heads with Bob Bradley? Vela is known for laziness and disrespect to managers. Bradley is known for no bullshit policies.

dN

And it looks like a roster churn at DC United is underway. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

dN

du Nord MLS Hot Team Hot List Power Rankings:

(Based solely on science using the 5 previous games, with no bias for prior standing or projections - just results.)

(As of Mon Aug 7)

Seattle Sounders

New York Red Bulls

Atlanta United

Vancouver Whitecaps

Dallas

San Jose Earthquakes

Portland Timbers

New York City

Philadelphia Union

Chicago Fire

Montreal Impact

Toronto

Houston Dynamo

Real Salt Lake

New England Revolution

Columbus Crew

Sporting Kansas City

Colorado Rapids

Minnesota United

Orlando City

LA Galaxy

DC United

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

NOTE: Minn is off this weekend. They were originally scheduled to play at Atlanta, but a delay in stadium opening has pushed the game back a few weeks.

The Loons signed goalkeeper Alex Kapp who has been training with the team for about a month already.

Kapp was drafted by Atlanta and was on their roster until they had to make room for goalkeeper Brad Guzan.

Schedule:

-Sun Aug 20

Seattle v Minnesota - 8:30pm CT

dN

MLS

The growth of MLS is real. By Ken Belson for the New York Times.

Clearly fake news.

Seriously though, there are a lot of flaws in MLS and one helluva long way to go for this league to be declared truly successful. But from what I have experienced in soccer in my lifetime this league has been a genuine revolution. We all need to keep the pressure on to keep it growing and improving in the right directions.

How have New York City, and in turn Manchester City, progressed in their 3 years in America? By Chris Young for the Guardian.

Is your team "ambitious or frugal?" It might start getting real hard for the frugal. By Paul Tenorio for Four Four Two.

I have felt for a long time that a frugal team can succeed, they just have to be smarter, better suited and make less mistakes than the ambitious.

Houston has signed a European centerback familiar to many - Swiss player Philippe Senderos from Rangers.

Week 23 Schedule:

(10 games)

-Sat Aug 12

Seattle v Kansas City

Toronto v Portland

DC v Salt Lake

Columbus v Chicago

New York Red Bulls v Orlando

Dallas v Colorado

New England v Vancouver

Philadelphia v Montreal

Houston v San Jose

LA v New York City - 10pm CT on ESPN2

Owners of the Minnesota Vikings NFL team, aka the Wilf family, have become part of the potential ownership group in Nashville, hoping to secure an MLS expansion team.

dN

David Villa of New York City named MLS Player Of The Week

Enzo Martinez of Charlotte Independence named USL Player Of The Week

Arielle Ship of Washington Spirit named NWSL Player Of The Week

dN

The new Southern California NASL team will be called California United FC. They will play at Cal State Fullerton's Titan Stadium (just north of Anaheim) - home of Lalas Hill. They will begin play next Spring.

dN

USMNT

DeAndre Yedlin has a jacked up hamstring, just in time for Newcastle's return to the Premier League this weekend. Not good.

Aron Johannsson is reportedly for sale by Werder Bremen.

dN

US Open Cup

Semifinals Schedule:

-Wed Aug 9

Sporting Kansas City v San Jose Earthquakes - 7:30pm CT via YouTube.

-Tue Aug 15

Cincinnati v New York Red Bulls

Priority order for hosting final:

Sporting Kansas City

New York Red Bulls

Cincinnati

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

A season preview of the top Americans across Europe. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

Who will be next in the wake of Pulisic to make an impact on a European club? Here are some possibles. By Andrew King for Four Four Two.

Although it looks like one of the picks in this article Russell Canouse is on his way to DC United.

dN

GUARDIAN 2017-18 PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM PREVIEWS:

Southampton

Newcastle United

Manchester United

Manchester City

Liverpool

Liecester City

Huddersfield

Everton

Crystal Palace

Chelsea.

Brighton + Hove Albion

Burnley

Bournemouth

Arsenal

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
