It's Day 222 of 2017.

Premier League, Eredivisie and Super Lig all start the new season tomorrow.

dN

3 Minnesota United roster moves:

Ethan Finlay comes to MN from Columbus Crew for a lot of money.

Jose Leiton arrives on loan from his club in Costa Rica, Herediano.

Rasmus Schuller has left on loan back to Finland to play for 1st place HJK.

(more details below)

Is Bashkim Kadrii still headed out? We shall see.

dN

The MLS roster freeze is Sep 15. Moves inside the league can still happen, and so can the signing of internationals who are not under any contract.

dN

Chicharito GOES OFF! Mexican star Javier Hernandez passionately defends his friends and international teammates who have chosen to play for LA Galaxy (Gio + Jonathan Dos Santos) and LAFC (Carlos Vela) and are taking heavy criticism back home in Mexico. From ESPNFC. [VIDEO]

It's not just Mexican fans that are unhappy, its the national team coach too. But this doesn't seem to matter to these players. By Kevin Baxter for the LA Times.

dN

Rafa Marquez denies that he is connected to a notorious drug cartel leader. By Jeremy Woo for Sports Illustrated.

Marquez has not been charged with any crimes.

He calls it an investigation, which is not true. The investigation is over and he is part of a large group that has been sanctioned.

Rafa talks about news organizations reporting the story, but the info is coming direct from a US Treasury Department notice.

Never once does he say he doesn't know Hernandez.

There are 9 businesses that Marquez runs (including a charity) that have been deemed connected to drug money. Oof.

dN

US Open Cup

Of course the big game in KC went to penalty kicks! When do they not? And KC won this one.

They will host the winner of Cincy-Red Bulls.

Semifinals Schedule:

-Wed Aug 9

Sporting Kansas City 1-1 San Jose Earthquakes - SKC advances 5-4 in Penalty Kick Shootout

-Tue Aug 15

Cincinnati v New York Red Bulls

Final:

-Date TBA

Sporting KC v Cincy/NYRB winner

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

NOTE: Minn is off this weekend. They were originally scheduled to play at Atlanta, but a delay in stadium opening has pushed the game back a few weeks.

Ethan Finlay is a Loon. MNUFC acquired him from Columbus (the only pro team he has ever played for) on Wednesday for a pile of salary cap exemption money.

The 27 year old right midfielder was born in Duluth and grew up in Wisconsin.

Finlay is having his worst season in several years and is looking for a jump start.

2014 he had 11 goals, 2015 he had 13 goals, 2016 he had 6 goals, and so far in 2017 he has just 1 goal.

Jose Leiton from Costa Rican club Herediano is now a Loon as well. The 24 year old left sided midfielder comes recommended by Francisco Calvo, and stands at just 5'5".

Leiton got his first international cap for CR playing in the Gold Cup against the USA. He came on as a sub in the semifinal match.

I gotta wonder though, with Ibarra and Nicholson was a 3rd left mid really necessary?

A little stadium building insight from team owner Bill McGuire. By Brian Quarstad for Fifty Five One.

Andy reports that the grass for the stadium is about to be planted! Bluegrass!

The Kentucky bluegrass to become #MNUFC's pitch at Allianz Field will begin growing in Colorado this week or next, owner Bill McGuire said.

— Andy Greder (@andygreder) August 10, 2017

I used to have bluegrass in my yard until the weeds took over.

dN

Brazen: du Nord Music Mix Vol 133 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Some of the biggest summer signings in MLS this year. Including a batch of names you probably don't know who could be quite good. By Nick Sabetti for MLS.

Twin Citian Calum Mallace has been traded by Montreal to Seattle.

Week 23 Schedule:

(10 games)

-Sat Aug 12

Seattle v Kansas City

Toronto v Portland

DC v Salt Lake

Columbus v Chicago

New York Red Bulls v Orlando

Dallas v Colorado

New England v Vancouver

Philadelphia v Montreal

Houston v San Jose

LA v New York City - 10pm CT on ESPN2

dN

Jorge Herrera of Charlotte Independence named USL Player Of The Month for July

dN

What's it like when your rinky dink town suddenly becomes a Premier League city? By Rory Smith for the New York Times.

dN

GUARDIAN 2017-18 PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM PREVIEWS:

West Ham

West Bromich Albion

Watford

Tottenham

Swansea

Stoke City

Southampton

Newcastle United

Manchester United

Manchester City

Liverpool

Liecester City

Huddersfield

Everton

Crystal Palace

Chelsea.

Brighton + Hove Albion

Burnley

Bournemouth

Arsenal

dN

Opening Day Across Europe's biggest leagues:

England - Aug 11

Netherlands - Aug 11

Turkey - Aug 11

Germany - Aug 18

Spain - Aug 18

Italy - Aug 19

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
