It's Day 109 of 2016.

My NASL Notes:

Indy Eleven dramatically beat New York Cosmos for the first time ever. The two had tied every prior meeting.

Cosmos lead 0-1 in the 89th minute but Indy grabbed a PK in the 90th and a winner in the 5th minute of stoppage time to steal the 3 points!

Eamon Zayed got both goals for Indy.

Carolina RailHawks stayed perfect with a 3rd win in a row.

Of course Tiyi Shipilane scored for Carolina again. Great player.

Minnesota United rolled over Fort Launderdale Strikers at home. Former Loon Geison "Red Card Comin" Moura signed with Ft L in the off-season and lived up to his name with a 22nd minute ejection. Damion Lowe got the game winning header for Minnesota off a corner kick!

Jean Marc Alexandre was was pretty much the only good thing Ft L. That guy is a beast and nearly impossible to take the ball off.

Jacksonville Armada and first time head coach Tony Meola got their and his first win.

Edmonton still hasn't scored a goal in 3 games.

Eamon Zayed of Indy Eleven has been named Player Of The Week.

dN

NASL Week 3:

-Fri Apr 15

Jacksonville 2-1 Miami

-Sat Apr 16

Carolina 1-0 Ottawa

Indy 2-1 Cosmos

Tampa Bay 1-0 Edmonton

Minnesota 3-0 Ft Lauderdale

11 goals in 5 games = 2.2 gpg.

dN

Full game highlights of Minnesota's win over Ft Lauderdale. [VIDEO]

My Minnesota United Notes:

The two centerbacks, Damion Lowe + Brent Kallman, and two defensive midfielders, Juliano Vicentini + Jeb Browvsky, were strong for the 2nd game in a row, protecting the goal well.

Kevin Venegas has fully erased all the preseason weirdness and had a very strong game, continuously getting forward and laying waste in the attack.

Lance Laing was firing in crosses like rockets! That guy is really impressive. Can't wait to see all these guys clicking in together.

Ibson made a late appearance, coming on the field since being injured in the first preseason game. He kept it simple, but got right into the thick of it immediately.

Christian Ramirez caused chaos for the opposition centerbacks. He nabbed a gimme goal and forced an own goal! If he fine tunes his finishing over the next few weeks he will be deadly. Could have had at least 2 more goals.

Stefano Pinho was not on the field long, but his speed looked incredible. Something Minnesota has not had in a long long long time.

I am curious about the status of Damion Lowe's contract. He is on loan from Seattle, but is there an option to buy him outright?

The overall team is a lot younger and faster than in any previous years.

The high pressure was good and can only get better.

Minnesota hosts Cosmos on Saturday night! A real test for this team. Minn has never beaten Cosmos.

dN

Very costly home loss for Bob's Boyz!

Bob Bradley + HAC - 4 games left - currently in 5th place - the race for 3rd place in Ligue 2 + promotion:

-Sat Apr 16

Le Havre 1-3 Nancy

-Ligue 2 Standings for 3rd:

56 Metz (+9)

---

55 Lens (+7)

55 Le Havre (+6)

55 Red Star (+3)

54 Clermont (+4)

NEXT: Fri Apr 22

Evian v Le Havre

dN

Christian Pulisic got his first pro goal, and set a record as the youngest non-German to ever score in the Bundesliga. It was also the game winner for Dortmund in a 3-0 victory over Hamburg.

Bobby Wood got his 17th goal of the season for Union!

Here's a good one: Cody Cropper got another start for MK Dons, but committed a foul in the box and was Red Carded late in the game with the score tied 1-1. MKD had already used all three subs so a forward went in goal and SAVED the Penalty Kick attempt to preserve the point!

Brad Guzan and Aston Villa were officially relegated after losing 1-0 at Man United.

DeAndre Yedlin and Sunderland got a win and are now 2 points away from safety, with a game in hand. But they are still in the relegation zone.

Danny Williams was suspended for 3 games after getting into a shoving and shouting match with a teammate two weeks ago. It was unsightly.

Word from Pachuca is that Omar Gonzalez left their game on Saturday in the 65th minute due to an injury. I don't know what the injury is, or how severe it might be.

dN

Brand new USL club FC Cincinnati set a league attendance record with 20,497 to see them lose 2-3 to Louisville City.

11 things we learned from Week 4 in USL. From USLsoccer.com.

dN

My MLS Notes:

Dallas won twice last week.

Colorado won twice last week too.

Kansas City lost twice last week.

Red Bull lost twice last week too.

Columbus finally won for the first time this season.

Chris Wondowlowski scored two goals in two games.

Wondo and Fanendo Adi are tied for the league lead in goals scored with 6.

Jordan Morris got his first ever professional goal - and it was a game winner.

Drogba: First game of the season. First goal of the season. First game winner of the season.

Germ Jerm: First game of the season. First goal of the season. And he did what he almost always does - Win! And it was on a snowy field in Denver!!!! He was the best player on the field by far.

Words on the Jones debut in Colorado. By John Meyer of the Denver Post.

I know it was Wintry weather in Denver, but there couldn't have been more than 3000 in the stadium. That is beyond embarrassing. I feel for those fans who have such inept ownership and management.

New England sure could have used a player of Jermaine Jones talents on Sunday.

New England has 5 ties in 7 games.

Orlando did not get robbed! Yes it was a bogus penalty against them in the end, but their goal right before that should not have counted either. Its a wash. Ended 2-2 instead of 1-1.

If you know me, you know I love a free kick goal! And Mauro Rosales wins it for Dallas with this beauty. [VIDEO]

Tyson Wahl of Columbus committed a foul in the penalty box and the ref made the correct call, except he gave a Red Card to Michael Parkhurst instead. Today the league acknowledged the error and Wahl will be suspended next week and not Parkhurst. This ref could have used help from his "teammates." just ask Kaka.

Dallas has lost centerback Matt Hedges due to a knee injury. He will be out for 6 weeks.

Houston beat Dallas 5-0 in Week 2. Since then Houston has not won another game and are already 12 points behind 1st place Dallas. Houston is in last place in the West.

6 teams in the East only have 1 win each! Oof.

Red Bulls are the worst team in the league: 1 Win and 6 losses for 3 points. 5 Goals For (league worst). 15 Goals Against (league worst).

My pick to win it all, Vancouver, already has 4 losses!

dN

Harrison Shipp returned to Chicago (his home town) and won with Montreal. His return story by Paul Tenorio of Four Four Two. Plus several other topics from the weekend in MLS.

dN

MLS Week 7:

-Wed Apr 13

Kansas City 1-2 Colorado

Portland 1-3 Dallas

San Jose 2-0 Red Bull

-Fri Apr 15

Houston 1-4 LA

-Sat Apr 16

Chicago 1-2 Montreal

DC 0-1 Toronto

Columbus 3-2 New York City

Colorado 2-1 Red Bull

Salt Lake 1-0 Vancouver

Seattle 2-1 Philadelphia

Portland 3-1 San Jose

-Sun Apr 17

Orlando 2-2 New England

Dallas 2-1 Kansas City

41 goals in 13 games = 3.2 gpg.

dN

Full faceplant by Barcelona! Their 39 game string without a loss ended, they lost the Classico, were knocked out of the UCL, and got pulled back into a tie at the top of La Liga with two more losses. All in about two weeks times!

The team that couldn't lose suddenly can't win! By Sid Lowe of the Guardian.

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

dN

Top Euro League races:

Spa: Barca 0 pt lead over Atletico Madrid and 1 pt lead over Real Madrid with 5 to play.

Eng: Leicester 5 pt lead over Tottenham with 4 to play. [Updated at 4:32pm CT]

Ger: Bayern 7 pt lead over Dortmund with 4 games to play.

Ita: Juventus 9 pt lead over Napoli with 5 to play.

The Bird Is The Word
