It's Day 24 of 2017.

Great news: Clint Dempsey medically cleared to begin preseason training with Seattle Sounders!!

dN

Three signings for Minnesota United today:

Starting with 25 year old Finnish defensive midfielder Rasmus Schuller from Hacken in Sweden. He has 14 caps for his national team.

Also signed MLS journeyman defender (can play all 4 spots across the backline) Jermaine Taylor from Portland Timbers. He has 84 international caps for Jamaica.

And finally they re-signed 28 year old Venezuelan attacking midfielder Bernardo Anor who was with Minnesota in NASL last season on a loan deal from Sporting Kansas City.

This puts the team at 21 players officially, and 2016 NASL rostered player Ismaila Jome is expected to be announced at any time taking them to 22.

That leaves 6 spots still open: They only have 1 goalkeeper (who is injured,) so they will need 2 more of those, leaving only 3 places available. Meaning ALL THREE need to be impact players.

And here we have the full MNUFC training camp roster:

G: Alec Ferrell, Marco Carducci (trialist), Sammy Ndjock (preseason invitee), Charlie Lyon (trialist)

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (preseason invitee), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Thomas de Villardi, Joe Greenspan, Ismaila Jome, Brent Kallman, Lance Laing (preseason invitee), Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Andrew Tinari (trialist)

M: Bernardo Anor, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Duke LaCroix (trialist), Collin Martin, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schüller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson, Johan Venegas, Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, David Goldsmith (trialist), Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez

6 names of interest on that roster: 3 NASL Minn United 2016 players, Sammy Ndjock, Tiago Calvano and Lance Laing. Plus 3 others:

Marco Carducci - 20 yr old keeper from Vancouver Whitecaps brought in by coach Rovde.

Duke LaCroix - 23 yr old from Indy Eleven who killed MN last year and was one of the leagues best.

Eugene (aka Yevgeni) Starikov - 28 yr old Russian Ukrainian-American who at one time was given a shot in a USMNT training camp. At Chornomorets in Ukraine last year.

First Loons preseason game is a week from today - Tue Jan 31 v New England Revolution.

dN

Some fascinating players in training camps around MLS:

Oguchi Onyewu is in preseason camp with Philadelphia Union.

Gale Agbossomounde is in preseason camp with Seattle Sounders.

And Freddy Adu is in preseason camp with Portland Timbers.

dN

Tyrone Mears has been shipped from Seattle to Atlanta. No details have come to light yet. But that is a solid starting right fullback.

dN

What does Jack Black think about the guitar playing of Tom Morrello?

how FUCKING cute iz jack?

A video posted by NINJA (@zef_alien) on Jan 22, 2017 at 5:07pm PST

dN

A deeper dive on the CONCACAF Champions League changes that were announced yesterday - what does it really mean? By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

American Terrence Boyd has left Liepzeig on a transfer deal to Darmstadt.

And don't forget that Torsten Frings is the coach!

dN

American Gedion Zelalem has signed a new contract with Arsenal and then loaned to VVV Venlo in Netherlands 2nd division.

The Bird Is The Word
