I made this list before the season started of 30 MLS players who I felt

had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these

players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

Juan Agudelo: came on at half time and had some chances but put them all over the top.

Alex: came on as a sub in the 57th min and hit the cross bar with a nice free kick.

Eric Avila: went the whole game, getting a yellow card and gave the ball away a lot.

Steve Beitashour: out injured.

Jerry Bengston: bye week.

Claudio Bieler: went the full 90 scoring a pure strikers goals in a terrific debut.

Alex Caskey: came on as a sub in the 62nd min, had a decent performance but not much to report.

Michael Farfan: played the whole 90, very solid.

Gabriel Farfan: started, subbed out in 70th to bring another forward as they went for a goal.

Diego Fagundez: bye week.

Perry Kitchen: went the full 90, was ok but not nearly good enough as a Houston's Ricardo Clark ruled the game.

Mikey Lopez: currently with USA U20.

Darren Mattocks: played the whole game, lots of running and effort, but not much for results.

Kenny Miller: went the full 90 and looked solid.

Mario Martinez: played the whole game but did not make a big enough impression offensively where they really could have used more help breaking down Montreals compact defense.

Jack McInerney: came on as a sub in the 70 to try and kick-start the offense, had a chance or two.

Kekuta Mennah: debuted as a pro, played the first half to little effect and was subbed out.

Justin Meram: did not suit up.

Amobi Okugo: played centerback and had a good first half, but not so good in the second half as the defense got torn apart.

Martin Rivero: out injured.

Oriol Uri Rosell: went the full 90 havind a very strong game and scoring the winning goal on a set piece.

Kelyn Rowe: bye week.

Chris Schuler: went the full 90. He is a giant dude. Bigger than Olave. Got lucky that San Jose could not bury their many chances.

Luis Silva: did not suit up - injured?

AJ Soares: bye week.

Bakary Soumare: on the bench but did not play.

Zarek Valentin: did not suit up.

Diego Valeri: a stellar debut going the whole 90 and scoring a highlight reel goal, not to mention setting up another with a hard shot that the keeper saved but a teammate put away the rebound. He was one of the best players in the league this weekend.

Jose Villareal: currently with USA U20 team

Sal Zizzo: came on as a sub in the 72nd min at right back to add more in the attack.
