STARTERS

USA shirt numbers for the 2010 World Cup:

1 Tim Howard

2 Jonathan Spector

3 Carlos Bocanegra

4 Michael Bradley

5 Oguchi Onyewu

6 Steve Cherundolo

7 DaMarcus Beasley

8 Clint Dempsey

9 Herculez Gomez

10 Landon Donovan

11 Stuart Holden

12 Jonathan Bornstein

13 Ricardo Clark

14 Edson Buddle

15 Jay DeMerit

16 Jose Torres

17 Jozy Altidore

18 Brad Guzan

19 Maurice Edu

20 Robbie Findley

21 Clarence Goodson

22 Benny Feilhaber

23 Marcus Hahnemann

TWITTER

Climb on to our Twitter party train: @dunord

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Our team is in South Africa now, and getting down to the nitty gritty.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 29

USA 2-1 Turkey - USA goals by Jozy Altidore & Clint Dempsey. Tur goal by Arda Turan.

Venue: Lincoln Financial Field - Philadelphia PA

-Sat Jun 5

USA v Australia - 7:30am Central on ESPN2

Venue: Ruimsig Stadium - Roodepoort, South Africa

dN

du Nord Three Stars Of The Game

3. Jose Torres/Robbie Findley - the young guys that many thought would not be on the team had a big day. Findley has a lot of doubters to prove wrong, including me, while Torres grows in stature, quality and confidence with each appearance for the national team.

2. Arda Turan - not just that pure hustle goal he scored, but the consistent torturing of right back Jonathan Spector made him impossible to resist.

1. Landon Donovan - simple, smooth, effective, and fantastic as usual in setting up both USA goals, while working with the teammates to create several other chances too. (And I didn't disregard a mediocre first half.)

dN

Former USA midfielder John O'Brien writing for the New York Times tells us about going to the World Cup from the inside.

-Excellent to hear from JOB.

dN

Toby Miller at the Chronicle of Higher Education takes a view of the beautiful game and its relationship with modern America.

-Thanks to our old pal David, who is pretty much smarter than all of us put together, sent us this great link.

dN

John Molinaro of the CBC talks to father son duo Bob and Michael Bradley.

dN

2 English newspapers give differeing opinions of the USA:

-The Telegraph - nothing to worry about

-The Sun - Look out

Thanks to Bart for sending us these.

dN

The Telegraph of London also takes note of the rare pro-USA crowds at the 2 east coast games last week.

dN

Ronald Blum of the Associated Press on Day 1 in the SA.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post on Jose Torres.

dN

Jay Greenburg of the NY Post on Landon Donovan's ability to change games.

dN

Noah Davis at Goal.com also on Jose Torres, and his growth as a player.

dN

Wayne Drehs of Soccernet talks to USA legend Walter Bahr about 1950 and today.

dN

Michael Lewis of the NY Daily News gives us a review of the USA at forward - and - midfield.

dN

The Associated Press on the USA lodging in SA.

dN

Jere Longman of the NY Times on the USA's defensive worries.

dN

Arch Bell of Yanks Abroad talks to DaMarcus Beasley now that he is on the team.

dN

Kelly Whiteside of USA Today on Africa, South Africa and African-American players.

dN

Martin Rogers of Yahoo with articles on both Robbie Findley - and - Jonathan Bornstein.

dN

Rogers also writes about American players who could benefit on the club front from a good World Cup.

-Actually, who's kidding who, every single player can benefit!

dN

- - - - -

Official Team Blog

The US Soccer video page at You Tube. Fantastic stuff!

-The latest is a fantastic feature on Jay DeMerit.

- - - - -

dN

USA OPPONENTS

England

-Richard Williams of the Guardian writes about the insanely idiotic running of the English Football Association.

-England struggled mightily on Sunday to beat Japan, who are struggling even more, 2-1. England missed a penalty kick, then got 2 own goals from Japan for the win. Oof.

-Graham Spiers of The Times looks at an old question - Should Scots support England?

-Patrick Barclay of The Times on England's formation.

-Anna Kessel of the Guardian on the teams World Cup home base in Bafokeng.

-The final 23 player roster:

G:

Robert Green - West Ham

Joe Hart - Manchester City

David James - Portsmouth

D:

Jamie Carragher - Liverpool

Ashley Cole - Chelsea

Rio Ferdinand - Manchester United

Glen Johnson - Liverpool

Ledley King - Tottenham

John Terry - Chelsea

Matthew Upson - West Ham

Stephen Warnock - Aston Villa

M:

Gareth Barry - Manchester City

Michael Carrick - Manchester United

Joe Cole - Chelsea

Steven Gerrard - Liverpool

Frank Lampard - Chelsea

Aaron Lennon - Tottenham

James Milner - Aston Villa

Shaun Wright-Phillips - Manchester City

F:

Peter Crouch - Tottenham

Jermain Defoe - Tottenham

Emile Heskey - Aston Villa

Wayne Rooney - Manchester United

Slovenia

-The Slovenia 23:

G:

Samir Handanovic - Udinese

Jasmin Handanovic - Mantova

Aleksander Seliga - Sparta Rotterdam

D:

Miso Brecko - Koln

Bostjan Cesar - Grenoble

Elvedin Dzinic - Maribor

Suad Filekovic - Maribor

Branko Ilic - Locomotiv Moscow

Bojan Jokic - Chievo Verona

Matej Mavric Rozic - Koblenz

Marko Suler - Gent

M:

Valter Birsa - Auxerre

Andraz Kirm - Wisla Krakow

Andrej Komac - Maccabi Tel Aviv

Robert Koren - unattached

Rene Krhin - Inter Milan

Aleksander Radosavljevic - Larissa

Dalibor Stevanovic - Vitesse Arnhem

S:

Zlatko Dedic - Bochum

Zlatan Ljubijankic - Gent

Tim Matavz - Groningen

Milivoje Novakovic - Koln

Nejc Pecnik - Nacional

Algeria

-The Algeria 23:

G:

Faouzi Chaouchi - Setif

Lounes Gaouaoui - Chlef

Raid Ouheb M’bolhi Slavia - Sofia

D:

Habib Belaid - Boulogne

Nadir Belhadj - Portsmouth

Madjid Bougherra - Glasgow Rangers

Rafik Halliche - Madeira

Abdelakder Laifaoui - Setif

Carl Medjani - Ajaccio

Djamel Mesbah - Lecce

Antar Yahia - Bochum

M:

Djamel Abdoun - Nantes

Riad Boudebouz - Sochaux

Adlene Guidoura - Wolverhampton

Foued Kadir - Valenciennes

Medhi Lacen - Racing Santander

Yazid Mansouri - Lorient

Karim Matmour - Monchengladbach

Hassan Yebda - Portsmouth

Karim Ziani - Wolfsburg

F:

Rafik Djebbour - AEK Athens

Abdelkader Ghezzal - Siena

Rafik Saifi - Istres

PODCASTS/VIDEOCASTS

You all must stop what you are doing right now and check out the podcast known as World Cup Buzz. From the fine folks who regularly bring us EPL Talk and MLS Talk - and hosted by Richard Farley, the World Cup Buzz is bringing us a steady stream of amazing interviews in this run up to the big tournament. Here is just a sampling of who they have been talking to over the past week or so: Jonathan Wilson, Andy Gray, Simon Kuper, Grant Wahl, Martin Tyler and Tim Vickery.

Check it all out right here!

MEXICO WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Do you ever wonder why a player as seemingly talented as Giovani Dos Santos never gets playing time no matter what club he suits up for? Could it be an extensive conspiracy against him personally? Or maybe because he is an immature child? Check this out:

-He is considering quitting Mexico because his younger brother Jonathan did not make the World Cup squad too, and their fathers says Jonathan will now "NEVER" play for Mexico. Wow.

-According to reports Gio is very upset and is at home with the family, presumably curled up in the fetal position on his mother's lap, with Jonny next to him, deciding on his future.

-And Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Houston Chronicle compares the pathetic childish attitudes of the Dos Santos clan with the amazing maturity of Dynamo forward Brian Ching who was shockingly cut from the USA team.

WORLD CUP 2010 - SOUTH AFRICA

Giuseppe Rossi did not make the Italy 23. I feel bad for him, but he has more years ahead to fulfill his dream.

-On the other hand he could be a star for America right now.

dN

The Washington Post on the climate and altitude that await teams at the World Cup.

-I don't recall either playing any role at all last summer at the Confederations Cup also in South Africa.

dN

In the end, South Africa chose not to include forward Benni McCarthy on their squad. He is undoubtedly talented, but just not the type of team player they really need to move out of the group stage.

dN

Gabriele Marcotti at the Wall Street Journal tells us about the new era German team.

dN

Marcotti writing for the Times of London looks at Spain, who have the most talent, but can they win it?

dN

John Duerden of The Observer with an article on "the People's Rooney" from North Korea.

dN

Rob Bagchi of the Guardian on all of the Netherlands' high quality and low reward trips to the World Cup.

dN

Samuel Eto'o got 2 yellow cards and was sent off in Cameroon's friendly against Portugal today.

And the Netherlands did a little asskicking today, 4-1 over Ghana.

Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Fri May 28

Ireland 3-0 Algeria

-Sat May 29

Slovakia 1-1 Cameroon

Germany 3-0 Hungary

New Zealand 1-0 Serbia

North Korea v Congo DR - no one knows if it was played

Spain 3-2 Saudi Arabia

USA 2-1 Turkey

-Sun May 30

Chile 1-0 N Ireland - Chile split squad

Chile 3-0 Israel - Chile split squad

Cote d'Ivoire 2-2 Paraguay

England 2-1 Japan

France 1-1 Tunisia

Mexico 5-1 Gambia

Nigeria 1-1 Colombia

South Korea 0-1 Belarus

-Mon May 31

South Africa 5-0 Guatemala

-Tue Jun 1

Australia 1-0 Denmark - Aus goal by Josh Kennedy.

Cameroon 1-3 Portugal - Cam goal by Pierre Webo. Por goals by Raul Meireles(2) & Nani.

Ghana 1-4 Netherlands - Gha goal by Asamoah Gyan. Neth goals by Dirk Kuyt, Rafael van der Vaart, Wesley Sneijder & Robin van Persie(PK).

Switzerland 0-1 Costa Rica - CR goal by Winston Parks.

-Wed Jun 2

Greece v Paraguay

Honduras v Azerbaijan

Serbia v Poland

FUN FACT OF THE DAY

We have finally learned why Shalrie Joseph of New England was suspended for 5 games earlier this season - he tested positive for marijuana.

STORY OF THE DAY

The Associated Press with a great article on soccer pubs in America.

-Many of the pubs we frequent are in here, including the main focus of the article Milwaukee's famous Highbury Pub - a huge du Nord fave!

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

Get the new shirt from Bumpy Pitch inspired by the USA's 1-0 World Cup win over England in 1950.

WHY NOT!

Did you read Grant Wahl's book The Beckham Experiment last year? Well the paperback edition is on the way and there is a new afterward, and Sports Illustrated gives us some of that.

-How did the famous airing of grievances between Landon Donovan and David Beckham take place? "Let's get this done," said LA coach Bruce Arena. Ya gotta love that guy.

WTF???

Wayne Drehs of Soccernet tells us that during last years Confederations Cup "Jozy Altidore [ran] up a cell phone bill in excess of $6,000."

MLS WEEK 10

-Thu May 27

Chicago Fire 1-1 FC Dallas - CF goal by Brian McBride. FCD goal by David Ferreira.

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 12,522

-Sat May 29

DC United 3-2 Chivas USA - DCU goals by Andy Najar, Adam Cristman & Carey Talley(PK). CUSA goals by Justin Braun & Maykel Galindo.

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

Attendance: 13,043

Columbus Crew 0-2 Los Angeles Galaxy - LAG goals by Michael Stephens & Tristan Bowan.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 18,139

New England Revolution 3-2 New York Red Bulls - NER goals by Marko Perovic, Tim Ream (OG) & Zach Schilawski. NY goals by Seth Stammler & Juan Pablo Angel.

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Attendance: 11,316

Houston Dynamo 2-3 Philadelphia Union - HD goals by Brian Ching & Eddie Robinson. PU goals by Shea Salinas, Sebastian Le Toux & Danny Mwanga.

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Attendance: 13,555

Colorado Rapids 1-0 Seattle Sounders FC - CR goal by Conor Casey.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Attendance: 18,000

Real Salt Lake 4-1 Kansas City Wizards - RSL goals by Fabian Espindola, Alvaro Saborio, Robbie Russell & Ned Grabavoy. KCW goal by Josh Wolff.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 15,588

San Jose Earthquakes 1-3 Toronto FC - SJE goal by Ramiro Corrales. TFC goals by Chad Barrett & Dwayne DeRosario(2).

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 10,214

dN

Ejections:

Carlos Mendes - New York - 2 yellow cards

Roy Miller - New York - red card

Zach Thornton - DC - red card

Davy Arnaud - Kansas City - 2 yellow cards

dN

Week 11 gets going early:

-Wed Jun 2

New York Red Bulls v Houston Dynamo - 6:30PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

San Jose Earthquakes v Columbus Crew - 9PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

In a big surprise Real Salt Lake forward Alvaro Saborio has been named the league's Player Of The Month for May! Wow, I did not see that coming.

dN

Toronto midfielder Dwayne De Rosario was named Player of the Week.

dN

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated with 5 things to take away from Week 10.

dN

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with his regular top notch Monday Morning Breakdown.

dN

Frank Giase of the Newark Star Ledger now recognizes this pile of mediocrity in New York as the local team comes down from a great start to their usual place in the league. Ouch. But true.

dN

Michael C Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune on the high quality being emitted by the RSL forwards.

-This should be expected seeing as their head coach Jason Kreis was once not long ago the league's all time top goal scorer.

dN

Soccernet on DC's latest teen prodigy - Andy Najar.

dN

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com on the Union's midfield, and plenty of other thoughts on the improving squad.

MLS INJURY REPORT

A horrifying leg break has ended the season for New England goalkeeper Preston Burpo. He collided with New York's Dane Richards and snaps his leg below the knee. This video is very graphic, especially after the 30 second mark. Its the worst I have seen in MLS. You have been strongly warned.

-Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe with more on Burpo and the return from long term injury for New England's #1 keeper Matt Reis.

DU NORD PLAYER OF THE WEEK

Goalkeeper Donovan Rickets of the Los Angeles Galaxy is our Player of the Week.

-He was amazing not so much for saves, which he had a couple nice ones, but for keeping his back 4 tightly organized throughout a near 90 minute barrage from Columbus.

MY THOUGHTS

Here is Houston's season after 11 games: T-W-L-W-L-W-L-W-L-W-L - That is a yo-yo that even Kenny Strasser would recognize.

dN

Kansas City is even worse off without a win since Apr 10, going 6 losses and 2 ties since then.

dN

What has happened to all of those key foreign acquisitions from the offseason. Only 2 started on Saturday, and only 3 played. That is a lot of salary cap doing nothing.

dN

Colorado announced a sellout - does anyone know why? Was it a special occasion? Maybe they are doing 4th of July style fireworks with every game now?

dN

In the past I have made fun of goalkeeper Preston Burpo, but with an injury like the one he suffered over the weekend, its time to drop silly things and just have a good thought for him now.

dN

Shea Salinas' goal for Philadelphia was a masterpiece, especially as it came against Houston who have a great defense and goalkeeper. He smoked centerback Bobby Boswell, then outwitted keeper Pat Onstad with a no look chip shot for the score. Check it out. Easily my fave goal of the week.

dN

Columbus may try to impress people with their stat of 21 shots against LA, but they only put 4 of them on goal. That is not impressive.

dN

Phila got their first ever road win. Always a good milestone to get past.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

The Colorado Rapids are about to fall another big step down the importance ladder of owner Stan Kroenke as he is all but completed a deal to by the St Louis Rams of the NFL.

MLS TEAM STATS

Best Offense

Salt Lake - 21 goals scored

Los Angeles - 18

Houston - 16

Toronto - 15

Columbus - 14

Best Defense

Los Angeles - 2 - goals allowed

Colorado - 7

Columbus - 8

San Jose - 10

Salt Lake - 11

Dallas - 11

Worst Offense

DC - 7 goals scored

Kansas City - 9

Seattle - 9

Colorado - 10

Philadelphia - 10

Worst Defense

DC - 20 goals allowed

Philadelphia - 17

New England - 17

Chivas - 17

New York - 15

MLS RUMORS

Soccer 365 with the latest whisperings on Fredy Montero, Manuel Salazar, David Beckham and more.

dN

Who is this Giancarlo Maldonado that Chivas USA is reportedly signing? A high scoring Venezuelan who has had trouble finding a spot on a team the past year.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

Matches & Scores:

-Sun May 30

Chicago Fire 0-1 AC Milan (Italy) - ACM goal by Clarence Seedorf.

Venue: Toyota Park

Attendance: 20,356

US OPEN CUP

MLS - the final Play-In Round game with the winner advancing to the Round of 16:

-Wed Jun 2

DC United v Real Salt Lake

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

dN

All the best Open Cup info can be found right here at The Cup.

USSF DIVISION 2

International Friendly:

-Sat May 29

Portland Timbers (USSF-D2) v Boca Juniors (Brazil)

Venue: PGE Park - Portland OR

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 29

Rochester Rhinos 2-1 Vancouver Whitecaps

Crystal Palace Baltimore 0-2 Austin Aztex

Tampa Bay Rowdies 2-1 Puerto Rico Islanders

NSC Minnesota Stars 3-2 AC St Louis

-Sun May 30

Montreal Impact 0-2 Carolina RailHawks

dN

Standings (As of Mon May 31):

20 Austin - 9 played

18 Tampa Bay - 9 played

14 Rochester - 9 played

12 Vancouver - 8 played

11 Montreal - 7 played

11 Carolina - 7 played

11 Portland - 8 played

10 Baltimore - 9 played

10 Minnesota - 11 played

8 Miami - 7 played

6 Puerto Rico - 5 played

4 St Louis - 9 played

dN

Standings base on Points Per Game:

2.22 Austin

2.00 Tampa Bay

1.57 Carolina

1.57 Montreal

1.56 Rochester

1.50 Vancouver

1.22 Portland

1.20 Puerto Rico

1.14 Miami

1.11 Baltimore

0.91 Minnesota

0.44 St Louis

USA U18 TEAM

Lisbon International Tournament

Matches & Scores:

-Thu May 27

USA 0-1 Norway - Nor goal by Orjan Hopen(PK).

Match report from US Soccer.

-Fri May 28

USA 1-0 Romania - USA goal by Victor Chavez.

Match report from US Soccer.

Note: the USA played with a 1 man advantage from the 47th minute, and a 2 man adv from the 53rd min. The goal came in the 74th.

-Sun May 30

USA v Portugal

Roster:

G:

Earl Edwards - UCLA

Andrew Wolverton - Concorde Fire

D:

Michael Ambrose - FC Dallas

Bryan Gallego - New York Red Bulls

Andrew Jean-Baptiste - Albertson

Jordan McCrary - Concorde Fire

Boyd Okwuonu - FC Dallas

Eriq Zavaleta - FC Pride

M:

Sean Davis - New York Red Bulls

Amadou Dia - Real Colorado

Daniel Garcia - FC Dallas

Luis Gil - Real Salt Lake

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Miguel Lopez - Lonestar SC

Daniel Metzger - PDA

Jared Watts - Wake Forest

Riley Wolfe - LA Galaxy

F:

Victor Chavez - Real So Cal

Stefan Jerome - West Pines United FC

Sean Okoli - Washington Premier

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

Martin Rogers of Yahoo on the big big big money of a World Cup bid.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Greg Seltzer of No Short Corners reports that Earnie Stewart has been hired by AZ Alkmaar to become their new Technical Director. He was previously in the same role at NAC Breda. Fantastic!

AMERICANS IN ASIA

Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 29

USA 2-1 Turkey - in Philadelphia at Lincoln Financial Field

Venezuela 1-1 Canada - in Merida, Venezuela

-Sun May 30

Mexico 5-1 Gambia - in Bayreuth, Germany

-Tue Jun 1

Switzerland v Costa Rica - in Sion, Switzerland

-Wed Jun 2

Honduras v Azerbaijan in Zell Am See, Austria

-Thu Jun 3

Italy v Mexico - in Brussels, Belgium

-Sat Jun 5

USA v Australia - in Roodepoort, South Africa at Ruimsig Stadium

Honduras v Romania in St. Veit An Der Glan, Austria

Slovakia v Costa Rica in Bratislava, Slovakia

dN

Here was Canada's roster for Venezuela match:

G:

Haidar Al Shaibani - Nimes

Josh Wagenaar - Falkirk

D:

Richard Hastings - Hamilton Acadaemy

Mike Klukowski - Club Brugges

Nik Ledgerwood - Frankfurt

Pedro Pacheco - Nacional (Portugal)

Eddy Sidra - Energie Cottbus II

Paul Stalteri - Monchengladbach

Adam Straith - Energie Cottbus

M:

Terry Dunfield - Shrewsbury

Gavin McCallum - Hereford united

Issey Nakajima-Farran - Horsens

Gianluca Zavarise - Bochum

F:

Stephen Ademolu - Ekranas

Rob Friend - Monchengladbach

Simeon Jackson - Gillingham

ENDERS

My pal The Lightning Striker posted a video of me at the final whistle of the UEFA Champions League final - Inter are winners.
