-Today's Blogosphere American Soccer Award from Climbing The Ladder is Defender of the Year.

Here is who I voted for:

1- Eddie Robinson - San Jose (finished 2nd in the voting)

2- Ty Marshall - LA (finished 3rd in the voting)

3- Brian Namoff - DC (finished 10th in the voting)

I was surprised to see that no one voted for Chad Marshall, but being on a lousy team hurts. My sleeper defender of the year is Jay Heaps. I never notice him on the field except when he creeps into the offensive end (and he is very good in those situations), but no one ever seems to score from the left side against New England either. Heaps is doing something right. He got one vote.

-Last nights Carling Cup matches turned a few surprises:

Chelsea 1-1 Charlton (4-5 on PK's) - Huth gives up horrible back pass for Charlton goal, then has his PK saved.

Man United 4-1 Barnet - Giovanni Rossi scored again for Man U, who had Tim Howard in goal.

Grimsby Town 0-1 Newcastle - Shearer scored, and got a busted lip on a flagrant elbow that was not called.

Bolton 1-0 West Ham - Jared Borgetti to the rescue.

Everton 0-1 Middlesborough - Everton are out of the Champions League, UEFA Cup and now League Cup, plus they are in last place in the EPL. Jimmy Floyd Hasselbank scored.

-Man oh man is the MLS two-legs quarter final round of the playoffs taking a beating from critics. In some ways I like it, but then again I see the negatives. My feeling is that you either have the whole playoffs be two-legs or one-leg. You can't have it both ways. And away goals should count as the first tie breaker in the event of a draw score. I love the insanity that the away goals rule causes.

-Now this is some fabulous shit, and our own Kasey Keller is at the heart of the tale! Here is a link to a match report from the Bundesliga match last weekend between Keller's Monchengladbach and Kaiserslautern. Gladbach won it 4-1. But at the end of the match there was an "incident" featuring Keller, and it is described in words and photos at the very bottom of the page. You will love this!!! And just in case you need another reason to love Kasey Keller - well, him likey the rock n roll. Thanks to BQ for the heads up on this one!

-Dawayne DeRosario feature in the San Jose Mercury News.

-New Columbus coach Sigi Schmidt hosted an online chat with his teams fans yesterday. Read it.

-Why are the Turkish people so mad? I know it's a cliche, but aren't cliches based in some facts, even grossly generalized ones?

-In Copa Sudamericana last night, Velez Sarsfield stunned America 2-0 in Mexico City. After an amazing run, America have now dropped three straight in all competitions. The second leg is next Wednesday in Buenos Aires.

-DFB Cup 2nd Round matches:

Osnabruck 2-2 Mainz (2-4 on PK's)

Hamburger 3-2 Bayer Leverkusen

1860 Munchen 3-2 Duisburg

Arminia Bielefeld 2-1 Energie Cottbus

Hansa Rostock 3-2 Stuttgart

Kickers Offenbach 2-1 Karlsruhe

Hertha Berlin 3-0 Monchengladbach

Erzgebirge Aue 0-1 Bayern Munchen

-Mexico beat Uruguay 3-1 in Mexico City last night. Carlos Salcido, Diego Martinez & Luis Ernesto Perez scored for the Mexi's, while Sebastian Abreu scored for Uru.

-Wednesday night scores from La Liga:

Barcelona 2-0 Malaga

Deportivo La Coruna 3-1 Real Madrid

Mallorca 1-0 Celta Vigo

Osasuna 3-2 Athletic Bilbao

Real Betis 2-3 Villarreal

-An interview with former USA striker Willy Roy (Remember him? No? Me neither! Although I occasionally hear fancy people talk about him.) via US Soccer.

-Wednesday night scores from Serie A (Juve won their 9th straight to start the season - a new Italian record):

Ascoli 1-1 Udinese

Cagliari 1-1 Livorno

Empoli 1-3 Milan

Inter 2-3 Roma

Juventus 2-0 Sampdoria

Lazio 2-2 Chievo Verona

Palermo 3-0 Lecce

Parma 1-1 Messina

Reggina 1-2 Treviso

Siena 0-2 Fiorentina

-Andrea Canales of Soccer 365 has a double today: Q & A with Cobi Jones, and her argument on why the single table is not the thing for MLS.
