OH BOY

From the Twitter feed of Tariq Panja of Bloomberg, @tariqpanja: Statement, Acting President of CONCACAF Lisle Austin has terminated the services of General Secretary Chuck Blazer with immediate effect.

And then CONCACAF finally releases their first press statement on the whole affair to say that Austin does not have the authority to dismiss Blazer.

I think there is only one proper response to all this FIFA/CONCACAF madness - right here.

STARTERS

Huge congrats to Barcelona on winning the the UEFA Champions League! Hooray, and don't drop the trophy.

dN

The High and Low of international soccer all in one day - George Vecsey of the New York Times on the intersection of a glorious Champions League victory for Barcelona and wild FIFA executive committee corruption accusations.

STORY OF THE DAY

After Saturday's game Sergio Koke told the Houston Dynamo he wanted out of the team, and they granted his wish by terminating his contract immediately.

No firm reasons have been given for his departure.

Koke only signed with the team a little over a month ago, has started 2 games, made 5 other appearances, scoring 1 goal.

The big Spanish sports daily Marca is where I first saw the story. (in Spanish)

-This is the Marca headline:

Koke leaves the Dynamo on request

"Koke came into the locker room and said he wanted to end his contract with the team and go home," said club president.

-The key line from their article: "Apparently Koke was angry for not playing enough and took that decision."

Here is the story from Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Houston Chronicle, which does not contain the line about his being angry over lack of playing time.

-Ortiz shares his opinion of Koke on the papers blog, and he does not mince words. I think this is a pretty damning opinion.

JACK WARNER/SEPP BLATTER/FIFA ODDITIES

The Telegraph of London now is reporting that FIFA executive member Chuck Blazer has filed ANOTHER charge against his long time ally Jack Warner, stating that Warner has continued to conduct CONCACAF business, including meeting with federation members, even though he is suspended from all soccer related activities.

One item that has not really been addressed beyond the amazing account of Chuck Blazer turning on his decade of over two decades Jack Warner, is that the man who led the secret investigation against Warner is a Chicago lawyer John Collins, who is said to have been at Warner's side through many other questionable actions in CONCACAF in FIFA.

-What exactly caused these two to turn on Slappy Jack?

Jere Longman of the New York times has quotes from Chuck Blazer.

-Blazer: “It was clear to me that rules were broken and were very serious. The idea that money would be paid for votes would have been a change I couldn’t bear. I’m hopeful this will set a reasonable standard for others and people will be encouraged when faced with this sort of corruption, they will deal with it.”

Esteban Pagan Rivera of Primera Hora talks to the President of the Puerto Rican federation who received some of the money that was supposedly provided by Mohamed Bin Hammam in exchange for votes. This is another piece of the weird puzzle. Via IMSoccer. Thanks to Brian.

FIFA reports on Herr Blatter's opening comments to the annual Congress of federations that began today in Zurich.

-And then Grace Jones entertained the troops (supposedly yelling "Wake Up" at one of the old duffers in the front row):

A full run down on the FIFA circus from the past few days can be found here at du Nord.

CONCACAF

Lisle Austin of Barbados has been named interim President of CONCACAF.

Simon Evans of Reuters reports that Austin's first act as new President was to order an inquiry into Chuck Blazer and his investigation into Warner. And then to direct all federation members that they are not to use the law firm that conducted the investigation into Warner, even though that law firm has been used by Warner for many years to do all his behind the scenes work.

And in all of this, the Gold Cup kicks off this Saturday. Nice timing guys.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE FINAL

Barcelona is the 2010-11 Champion. What can you say. They played a nearly perfect 2nd half in the final to clinch their 4th European championship.

dN

I think we saw the next logical step in the move toward the 4-6-0 formation. Maybe you can call David Villa the lone forward in a 4-5-1, but he plays so much wide right that he almost becomes a winger. Same goes for Pedro on the right side. And there there is Messi. And like the other two he plays an awful lot like a forward. But how many forwards are in the middle of their team taking passes and spraying them in all directions as others ebb and flow toward the opposition goal. He plays like a midfielder a lot too. Then there is the triangle of Sergio Crybaby Busquets, Xavi Hernandez and Andres Iniesta. The first two are definitely midfielders. But what is Iniesta? He is a forward at times too. No wonder no one can stop them with 6 guys that all handle the ball like Curly Neal.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune with a review of the big game.

dN

Match & Score:

Barcelona 3-1 Manchester United - Bar goals by Pedro, Lionel Messi & David Villa. MU goal by Wayne Rooney.

Venue: Wembley Stadium - London

TEAM USA

Pre-Gold Cup

The team is training in Cary NC.

dN

Ticket sales for Saturday's game against Spain has passed the previous Boston attendance record for a USA game of 57,407. Will they sell all 67,000 tickets?

dN

Benny Feilhaber rolled his ankle in New England's game on Saturday, so Alejandro Bedoya has been brought in to train with the team in case Feilhaber cannot go.

-No word yet on the severity of the injury, but it did not look good when it happened.

-Teams have until 24 hours before their first game to make a roster change for injury.

dN

Brian Straus of the Sporting News talks to both Michael Bradley and Freddy Adu about long and trying club seasons, and being in camp with the USA.

-I feel like we have heard Freddy Adu say at least a half dozen times the he has learned from his mistakes, put them behind him, and is finally ready for the real challenge. Is this time any different?

dN

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated ponders Adu's inclusion on this team.

dN

US Soccer has an interview with Carlos Bocanegra.

dN

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to Steve Cherundolo.

dN

The official team blog.

dN

Matches & Scores:

Friendly

-Sat Jun 4

USA v Spain

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

CONCACAF GOLD CUP

Shalrie Joseph has decided not to go play for Grenada in this tournament, and would rather suit up for his club team New England Revolution who he says really needs him right now.

dN

Former Galaxy midfielder Pando Ramirez picked up an injury and is out of the Guatemala team.

dN

Both Tyrone Marshall (injuries to others in CO) & Omar Cummings (injured ankle) of the Colorado Rapids will miss some or all of the Gold Cup for Jamaica.

-Jamaica will need to decide 24 hours before the first game whether or not to keep them on the roster.

dN

All team rosters.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

Hypothetically, is there be any chance that we could see a break away from CONCACAF with maybe the North and Central America teams leaving, and taking a couple others with them? Mexico, USA, Canada, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, El Salvador and Belize. Why not bring in Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico and a few others too.

Then they could let Jack & The Jackasses twist in the wind.

STAT OF THE DAY

Lionel Messi of Barcelona finished the 2010-11 season with 56 goals scored in 62 games played in all competitions. Stunning.

FACT OF THE DAY

Two go out in one day!

Carlos de los Cobos has been fired from his job as head coach of the Chicago Fire. Sad. But not unexpected.

-The team's record is 1 win, 4 losses and 6 ties, for 9 points from 11 games.

-Len Zeihm of the Chicago Sun Times with the story.

-Technical director Frank Klopas will take over as interim head coach.

Teitur Thordarson has been fired from his job as head coach of the Vancouver Whitecaps.

-The team's record is 1 win, 5 losses and 6 ties, for 9 points from 12 games.

-Marc Weber of the Vancouver Province with the story.

-Director of soccer operations Tom Soehn will take over as interim head coach.

VIDEO OF THE DAY

A near-surreal scene in Portland as not 1 but 2 Penalty Kick saves were nullified by the referee due to goalkeeper encroachment, and finally the third attempt from a different taker hits the back of the net.

PK #1

PK#2

PK#3

WHY?

Brian Mullan played for the Colorado Rapids reserve team on Sunday. Why is it that he can play while he is serving a 10 game suspension? I'm sure something is in the rules that allows it, but I think its wrong.

MLS MATCHES, SCORES & STANDINGS

Week 11

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 28

Toronto FC 2-6 Philadelphia Union - TFC goals both by Maicon Santos. PU goals by Gabriel Farfan, Justin Mapp(2), Kyle Nakazawa & Danny Mwanga(2).

Venue: BMO Field

Attendance: 20,122

Vancouver Whitecaps FC 1-1 New York Red Bulls - VW goal by Eric Hassli(PK). NYRB goal by Luke Rodgers.

Venue: Empire Field

Attendance: 21,000

Columbus Crew 3-3 CD Chivas USA - CC goals by Andres Mendoza(2) & Emmanuel Ekpo. CU goals by Nick LaBrocca, Andrew Boyens & Jorge Flores.

Venue: Crew Stadium

Attendance: 9,431

New England Revolution 0-1 LA Galaxy - LAG goal by Miguel Lopez.

Venue: Gillette Stadium

Attendance: 21,793

Chicago Fire SC 2-2 San Jose Earthquakes - CF goals by Dominic Oduro & Cory Gibbs. SJE goals by Ramiro Corales & Chris Wondolowski.

Venue: Toyota Park

Attendance: 11,926

Houston Dynamo 2-2 FC Dallas - HD goals by Cam Weaver & Colin Clark. FCD goals by Andrew Jacobson & Ugo Ihemelu.

Venue: Robertson Stadium

Attendance: 16,709

Colorado Rapids 1-1 Sporting Kansas City - CR goal by Conor Casey. SKC goal by Ryan Smith.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park

Attendance: 16,439

Real Salt Lake 1-2 Seattle Sounders FC - RSL goal by Nelson Gonzalez. SS goals by Patrick Ianni & Lamar Neagle.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium

Attendance: 14,674

-Sun May 29

Portland Timbers 2-3 DC United - PT goals by Jack Jewsbury(PK) & Jorge Perlaza. DCU goals by Perry Kitchen, Chris Pontius(PK) & Josh Wolff.

Venue: JELD-WEN Field

Attendance: 18,627

dN

EJECTIONS:

-Jorge Flores - Chivas - 2 yellow cards

-Kofi Sarkodie - Houston - 2 yellow cards

-Jamison Olave - Salt Lake - red card

dN

Standings:

EASTERN CONFERENCE

20 Philadelphia Union (+5 GD) (11 GP)

18 New York Red Bulls (+7 GD) (12 GP)

15 DC United (-4 GD) (11 GP)

15 Houston Dynamo (+2 GD) (13 GP)

14 Columbus Crew (-2 GD) (11 GP)

13 New England Revolution (-5 GD) (12 GP)

12 Toronto FC (-10 GD) (13 GP)

9 Chicago Fire SC (-4 GD) (11 GP)

5 Sporting Kansas City (-7 GD) (9 GP)

WESTERN CONFERENCE

29 LA Galaxy (+8 GD) (15 GP)

22 FC Dallas (+4 GD) (13 GP)

20 Seattle Sounders FC (+3 GD) (14 GP)

18 Colorado Rapids (+2 GD) (13 GP)

17 Real Salt Lake (+6 GD) (9 GP)

17 Portland Timbers (-2 GD) (11 GP)

13 CD Chivas USA (+1 GD) (11 GP)

13 San Jose Earthquakes (0 GD) (11 GP)

9 Vancouver Whitecaps FC (-4 GD) (12 GP)

dN

Early Week 12

-Wed Jun 1

CD Chivas USA v Vancouver Whitecaps - FC 9:30PM CT on Direct TV

Venue: The Home Depot Center

-Fri Jun 3

LA Galaxy v DC United - 10:00PM CT on FOX Soccer

Venue: The Home Depot Center

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated with his regular five things you should know about Week 11.

Justin Mapp of the Philadelphia Union has been named the MLS Player Of The Week.

Goals

-Mapp scored a nice goal. But when no defenders step up to stop you, this is not difficult. See it here.

-Commentator Bobby Rhine calls Ugo Ihemelu's number on this goal. See it here.

-Great teamwork from Houston leads to a great goal by Colin Clark. See it here.

-And here is my fave goal of the weekend by Andrew Jacobson, who is in the right place at the right time to drill this header home off a ferocious rebound. See it here.

-Almost as impressive is this far corner pin pointer from Lamar Neagle. See it here.

-Not to be outdone, Ryan Smith has a far post lazer beam shot of his own. See it here.

-Emmanuel Ekpo has my second fave of the week, making a great run into the box to get things started then corraling a loose ball, turning fast and slamming it home. See it here.

On the flip side, this performance for TFC might be some of the worst defending I have seen in a long time. See the full match highlights against Philadelphia here.

CHICAGO FIRE

Sean Johnson became the starting goalkeeper for the Fire this weekend, beating out Jon Conway who had replaced him after a series of mediocre performances early in the season.

COLORADO RAPIDS

I have to say that the attendance numbers in Colorado are much better than the past bunch of seasons, and the fans really take great joy when their team scores goals. Just listen to their roar when Conor Casey scores this one off a KC mistake. See & Hear it here.

-Bonus: Watch KC keeper Jimmy Nielsen flinch when the fireworks go off behind him.

PHILADELPHIA UNION

The Farfan Twins are starting at fullbacks and now in just a few weeks they have both scored. Michael has played 3 games, and Gabriel has played 5.

PORTLAND TIMBERS

Stephen Alexander of the Portland Trib reports on a heated verbal discussion between head coach John Spencer (does he have one of these every week now?), captain Jack Jewsbury and forward Kenny Cooper during their loss to DC on Sunday.

But everything seems to be hunky dory now. Great stuff.

Geoffrey Arnold of the Oregonian tells us about Portland's first home loss in league play.

TORONTO FC

Like some kind of perverted scene from a horror movie, TFC centerback Adrian Cann suffered a season ending torn ACL at training today. Wow. How much bad luck can one team have. Or do you create your own luck. Any way you slice it, its terrible news for Cann.

MLS RESERVE LEAGUE

Matches & Scores:

-Sun May 29

Colorado Rapids 1-1 Sporting Kansas City - CR goal by Brian Mullan. SKC goal by Korede Aiyegbusi.

Houston Dynamo 2-3 FC Dallas - HD goals by Chance Bergen & Jason Garey. FCD goals by Eric Avila & Ruben Luna(2).

Toronto FC 0-0 Philadelphia Union

-Mon May 30

New York Red Bulls 1-6 Columbus Crew - NYT goal by Marcos Paullo. CC goals by Cole Grossman, Justin Meram, Bernardo Anor, Mike Jones & Chris Davis(2).

NOTE: New York scored the first goal of the game before Columbus destroyed them.

NOTE 2: Hip-hop star Mike Jones suited up for Columbus on Saturday, he is a Crew fan, and scored a goal against New York! Oh yes he did!

Portland Timbers 0-2 Seattle Sounders - SS goals by Servando Carrasco & David Estrada.

-Sun Jun 5

Chivas USA v Portland Timbers

-Mon Jun 6

San Jose Earthquakes v LA Galaxy

-Tue Jun 7

Houston Dynamo v Colorado Rapids

DC United v New England Revolution

Seattle Sounders v Vancouver Whitecaps

dN

Standings Etc.

IF MLS HAD SINGLE TABLE STANDINGS

STANDINGS:

29 LA Galaxy

22 FC Dallas

20 Philadelphia Union

20 Seattle Sounders FC

18 New York Red Bulls

18 Colorado Rapids

17 Real Salt Lake

17 Portland Timbers

15 DC United

15 Houston Dynamo

14 Columbus Crew

13 CD Chivas USA

13 San Jose Earthquakes

13 New England Revolution

12 Toronto FC

09 Chicago Fire SC

09 Vancouver Whitecaps FC

05 Sporting Kansas City

MLS OFFENSIVE STATS LEADERS

As of Tue May 31

Goals:

8 Landon Donovan

6 Charlie Davies

6 Thierry Henry

6 Chris Wondolowski

5 Luke Rodgers

5 Maicon Santos

4 Will Bruin

4 Diego Chaves

4 Brad Evans

4 Eric Hassli

4 Shalrie Joseph

4 Marco Pappa

4 Chris Pontius

4 Emilio Renteria

4 Brek Shea

4 Cam Weaver

Assists:

8 Brad Davis

7 David Beckham

5 Kalif Alhassan

5 Davide Chiumiento

5 Jack Jewsbury

4 Marvin Chavez

4 Fredy Montero

4 Jan Gunnar Solli

NSC MINNESOTA STARS

The team debuted their second kit last Saturday night. And to say it is tribute would be very accurate.

NSC Minnesota Stars 2011

Minnesota Kicks 1976

NASL SCOREBOARD

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 28

Carolina RailHawks 2-0 Atlanta Silverbacks

Fort Lauderdale Strikers 0-0 Montreal Impact

NSC Minnesota Stars 0-0 FC Tampa Bay

-Tue May 31

FC Edmonton v FC Tampa Bay

-Wed Jun 1

Puerto Rico Islanders v NSC Minnesota Stars

dN

Standings (as of Sat May 29):

22 Carolina RailHawks (+12 GD) (9 GP) 2.44 PPG

13 FC Edmonton (-2 GD) (7 GP) 1.86 PPG

13 NSC Minnesota Stars (+3 GD) (9 GP) 1.44 PPG

10 Puerto Rico Islanders (0 GD) (6 GP) 1.67 PPG

10 FC Tampa Bay (0 GD) (8 GP) 1.25 PPG

8 Fort Lauderdale Strikers (-2 GD) (8 GP) 1.00 PPG

5 Montreal Impact (-1 GD) (7 GP) 0.71 PPG

2 Atlanta Silverbacks (-8 GD) (8 GP) 0.25 PPG

USA U18 TEAM

USA U18 team was in Portugal for the Lisbon International tournament.

The USA tied in their first game, lost their second, and tied again in their finale.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed May 25

USA 1-1 Netherlands - USA goal by Victor Pineda.

-Thu May 26

USA 0-1 Portugal

-Sat May 28

USA 0-0 Finland

Roster

G:

Jeff Gal - Sockers FC

Jon Kempin - Sporting Kansas City

D:

Michael Ambrose - FC Dallas Academy

Jack Coleman - FC Dallas Academy

Bryan Gallego - New York Red Bulls Academy

Jordan McCrary - U North Carolina

Juan Pablo Ocegueda - UANL Tigres

Boyd Okwuonu - FC Dallas Academy

Walker Zimmerman - Furman U

M:

Luis Gil - Real Salt Lake

Daniel Metzger - New York Red Bulls Academy

William Packwood - Birmingham City

Victor Pineda - Chicago Fire

Alex Shinksy - U Maryland

Christopher Somerville - Baltimore Bays Chelsea

Wil Trapp - Crew Soccer Academy

F:

Villyan Bijev - Cal Odyssey

Luis Rendon - FC Richmond Magic

Khiry Shelton - Lonestar SC

Jonathan Top - FC Dallas Academy

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action:

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - played the full 90 as they drew 1-1 v PSG. They finished the season in 10th place.

DENMARK - Superliga - (final game of the season)

Clarence Goodson - Brondy - Sun May 29 - went the distance as they won 0-2 at SonderjyskE. They finished the season in 3rd place.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - Sun May 29 - played the full game as they drew 0-0 v Midtjylland. They finished the season in 6th place.

Chris Rolfe - AaB - Sun May 29 - on the bench as they lost 2-0 at Kobenhavn. They finished the season in 10th place.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie - Promotion Playoff

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - 2nd Leg Sun May 29 - started but came out at half time and they lost 1-5 v Excelsior. They also lost out on promotion 9-3 on aggregate.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - went the full 90 and won 2-4 at Start.

Josh Gatt - Molde - subbed on at half time already down by 3 and lost 5-0 at Haugesund.

RUSSIA - Premier Division

Yevgeni Starikov - Tom' Tomsk - started but came off in the 58th as they lost 4-1 at Rubin Kazan.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Gale Agbossoumonde - Djurgarden - played the whole game but lost 0-1 v Elfsborg.

Ryan Miller - Halmstad - went the full 90 but lost 1-2 v IFK Goteborg.

CONCACAF

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Thu May 26

Cuba 1-1 Nicaragua

-Fri May 27

Grenada 2-2 Antigua & Barbuda

Barbados 0-0 St. Vincent & Grenadines

-Sat May 28

Mexico 1-1 Ecuador

Cuba 2-1 Nicaragua

-Sun May 29

El Salvador 2-2 Honduras

Barbados 1-1 Guyana

Panama 2-0 Grenada

CANADA

International Friendly

Match & Score:

-Wed Jun 1

Canada v Ecuador - in Toronto

ENGLAND

Long time Manchester United midfielder Paul Scholes has announced his retirement from football. He will always be remembered for playing with a fierce attitude, scoring some huge goals, and delivering some awful tackles.

dN

Championship Division - Promotion Playoff to Premier League - Final

Swansea becomes the 3rd and final team promoted to the Premier League next season. They join QPR & Norwich, replacing West Ham, Blackpool and Birmingham.

-Mon May 30

Swansea City 4-2 Reading

SPAIN

The behind the scenes battle that took place all season long at Real Madrid between technical director Jorge Valdano and head coach Jose Mourinho has ended with Valdona being relieved of his duties.

-The rumor is that Zinedine Zidane will take over as the new TD.

FRANCE

Recap du Nord: With Lille winning the title last week that race was over. We saw Marseille, Lyon and PSG stay at 2, 3 & 4, but Rennes lost and fell down while a winning Sochaux stole their spot at #5 to end the season.

Ligue 1 Top of the Table - 0 games to play

**76 Lille - Sun May 29 W 3-2 v Rennes

68 Marseille - Sun May 29 D 2-2 at Caen

64 Lyon - Sun May 29 W 0-2 at Monaco

60 PSG - Sun May 29 D 1-1 at St Etienne

58 Sochaux - Sun May 29 W 1-3 at Arles

**2010-11 Champions

dN

Monaco joins the ranks of the relegated.

Ligue 1 Relegation Battle - 0 games to play (three lowest placed teams relegated)

47 Montpellier (-11)

46 Caen (-5)

46 Brest (-7)

46 Nice (-15)

- - - - -

REL-44 Monaco (-4)

REL-35 Lens (-23)

REL-17 Arles (-49)

ITALY

COPPA ITALIA

Inter Milan claims the Italian League Cup for 2010-11.

Final

-Sun May 29

Palermo 1-3 Inter

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian hands out season ending Serie A awards.

-If there was any doubt that he has no time for Inter, this outta clear that up.

ARGENTINA

Recap du Nord: #1 Velez lost all but guaranteeing a crazy finish to the season. Lanus jumped up to 2nd with a win and just 1 point from the top, while Godoy dropped to third with a tie. Olimpio remained in 4th after their tie with River Plate who were not nearly as lucky and fell from 5th all the way down to 8th. Oof. Independiente got a win and moved up to the #5 spot for now.

Primera Division Clausura - Standings - 3 games to go

30 Velez Sarsfield (+14) - Sun May 29 L 2-1 at Tigre

29 Lanus (+12) - Mon May 30 W 3-0 v Huracan

28 Godoy Cruz (+5) - Mon May 30 D 2-2 v Gimnasia La Plata

26 Olimpio (+6) - Sun May 29 D 0-0 v River Plate

25 Independiente (+7) - Sun May 29 W 0-2 at Estudiantes

- - - - -

24 River Plate (+1) - Sun May 29 D 0-0 at Olimpio

COPA LIBERTADORES

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg (with 1st Leg scores included)

-Wed Jun 1

Club Cerro Porteno v Santos Futebol Clube (0-1)

-Thu Jun 2

Club Atletico Velez Sarsfield v Club Atletico Penarol (0-1)

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores:

-Thu May 26

Cuba 1-1 Nicaragua

-Fri May 27

Grenada 2-2 Antigua & Barbuda

Barbados 0-0 St. Vincent & Grenadines

Wales 2-0 N Ireland

-Sat May 28

Ethiopia 1-2 Sudan

Mexico 1-1 Ecuador

Cuba 2-1 Nicaragua

-Sun May 29

El Salvador 2-2 Honduras

Swaziland 1-1 Malawi

Barbados 1-1 Guyana

Tunisia 3-0 Central African Republic

Panama 2-0 Grenada

Ireland 1-0 Scotland

Germany 2-1 Uruguay

-Wed Jun 1

Nigeria v Argentina

Canada v Ecuador

Mexico v New Zealand

Japan v Peru

Guatemala v Venezuela

Ukraine v Uzbekistan
