STARTERS

Were the MLS referees all headed out to fill pot holes on freeways after their games last weekend? Or are they all moonlighting as bike messengers? What is up with those uniforms having bright yellow (nearly reflective) strips? (Can someone out there help me find an image of this gruesome attire?)

dN

A fantastic video from MLS recapping opening night in Seattle.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Quarterfinals Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Mar 30

Lyon 3-1 Bordeaux - - Lyo goals by Lisandro Lopez(2 - 1 via PK) & Michel Bastos. Bor goal by Marouane Chamakh.

Bayern Munich v Manchester United - BM goals by Franck Ribery & Ivica Olic. MU goal by Wayne Rooney.

-Wed Mar 31

Arsenal v Barcelona

Inter Milan v CSKA Moscow

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune examines Tuesday's wins by Bayern (shocking) and Lyon (not as easy as the scoreline.)

dN

Man United striker extraordinaire Wayne Rooney hobbled off the field in the dying seconds as Bayern celebrated the winning goal. He had jacked his right ankle over pretty badly just landing wrong on the ground. Damn that looked painful.

-They say its not real bad, and he will be back in 2 weeks. But.... he is practically the whole team at Manchester United as far as I am concerned, and without him they will have to step up big time to stay in the hunt for 2 titles.

-And the entire country of England has now been put on suicide watch.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

All 4 teams are from Mexico again this year.

Semifinals Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Mar 30

Toluca 1-1 Pachuca - Tol goal by Edgar Duenas. Pac goal by Dario Cvitanich.

-Wed Mar 31

UNAM v Cruz Azul - Live at 8:30PM on Fox Soccer Channel.

USSF DIVISION 2

Inside Minnesota Soccer with the ultimate 2010 USSF Division-2 Pro League Season Preview.

12 - Teams

12 - Stadiums

12 - Coaches

12 - Previews

12 - Authors

QUOTE OF THE DAY

Seattle announcer Arlo White on his style of calling games: "I’ve always remembered that: It only takes a second [to score a goal]. If listeners hear the crowd roar because a goal has been scored, I don’t be want to be preoccupied because I’m telling tales."

-Are all you broadcasters out there reading this and taking it in. Sometimes its best to shut up and pay attention.

-The Tacoma New Tribune with a profile on White.

STORY OF THE DAY

Mark Zeigler of the San Diego Union Tribune asks all the right questions about the quality of our USA team.

-I think this team has a huge mental hole when it comes to concentration at key points in the game. Yes, they are also very resilient, but much of that wouldn't be needed if so many other mistakes were not made.

TWITTERVERSE/FACEBOOKING

@cway1979: "This just in: Ben's Chili Bowl to have a stand at RFK this year."

MLS WEEK 2

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Apr 1

Houston Dynamo v Real Salt Lake - 8pm Central on ESPN2

LA Galaxy v Chivas USA - 10pm Central on ESPN2

-Sat Apr 3

Colorado Rapids v Chicago Fire - 4pm Central on TeleFutura

DC United v New England Revolution - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Seattle Sounders v New York Red Bulls - 9:30pm Central on FSC

MY THOUGHTS

Based solely on Week 1 performances, here is how I see the MLS teams piling up:

1 Salt Lake

2 Kansas City

3 Seattle

4 Columbus

5 Colorado

6 New York

7 Los Angeles

8 Houston

9 Dallas

10 Chicago

11 New England

12 Toronto

13 Philadelphia

14 Chivas

15 DC

16 San Jose

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

To no ones surprise Javier Morales of Real Salt Lake was named MLS Player Of The Week.

dN

Jack Bell of the NY Times does a "getting to know you" Q & A with Red Bulls coach Hans Backe, which Bells informs us is pronounced BAH-kuh.

dN

The Red Bulls have given long time assistant coach Richie Williams a contract extension. Good for him, he's earned it.

dN

Daniel Girard of the Toronto Star feels that TFC needs this week off to continue building their squad for the long season ahead.

dN

The Toronto Sun feels that with the MLS Cup coming to their city this fall then TFC really needs to up their game this season to at least avoid embarrassment.

dN

The Sun shows their love for Don Garber, for no further reason than he shows Canada respect. Unlike other big sports league commissioners.

dN

Sam Stejskal of Chicago Now tells us that Fire midfielder John Thorrington is out due to a hamstring injury he suffered in preseason.

dN

Sorry I missed this a few days ago - Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with his Monday Breakdown.

dN

Last Thursday night David Myrie (I know, who?) started at right fullback for Philadelphia. Yesterday he was cut from the team. My how things change.

dN

Luis Bueno of the Press Enterprise feels the LA-Chivas rivalry is still not really there yet. Well, compared to ones that have been round for a long time, its not possible, but otherwise, I sure feel it from out here.

dN

Michael C Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune looks at RSL's next road challenge - Houston! On Thursday night.

dN

Michael Black of the Deseret News writes about RSL's defense - they will carry the team this season.

dN

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze looks at the Galaxy's three young Brazilian players who all had a role in the season opener.

dN

The Houston Chronicle with some Dynamo team notes.

-And a few more players notes on injuries etc.

PETER NOWAK V FREDDIE LJUNGBERG

Richard Snowden of Soccer 365 is not a fan of MLS referee's letting the action get extra rough.

-And a huge THANK YOU to Snowden for pointing out the hideous ankle stomp that Jeff Larentowicz put on Michael Lahoud with referee Michael Kennedy staring right at, and doing nothing. NOTHING! Lahoud is lucky his ankle was not broken!

Don Ruiz of the Olympian on Seattle forward Freddie Ljungberg's back injury, and retorts to Philly coach Peter Nowak.

-While I have sympathy for Ljungberg on this injury, his does so much diving and complaining that I think referee's get sick of it and look the other way.

Joshua Mayers of the Seattle Times on Freddie Ljungberg's back.

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com goes back and rewatches the Union's first ever game and gives us a review. Very good reading.

-Here is what Tannenwald had to say about the foul on Ljungberg that has caused this back and forth: "The second card was on Toni Stahl for his tackle on Freddy Ljungberg. Peter Nowak thought it was a flop, and when I first saw it I thought the foul was called on Dave Myrie for creating more contact coming in from the front. It looked on the replay like Stahl came in from behind and at most clipped Ljungberg's heel. But Myrie then came in and basically tackled Stahl instead of Ljungberg, and Stahl pushed Ljungberg as they both fell over. I don't think it was a dive by Ljungberg, but I wouldn't have booked Stahl on the play."

MLS RUMORS

Is Danny Szetela going to get a look from Philadelphia. He surely has the talent, but obviously not the attitude for all the teams who have cut him loose at such a young age.

dN

Soccer 365 with rumors concerning Landon Donovan, Pat Noonan, Faryd Mondragon, Christian Arrieta, Raul and more.

MLS EXPANSION

The Montreal Gazette on Vancouver entering the league in one years time.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

This Is American Soccer with yet another ordinary/exceptional person like you and me telling their own soccer story. Love this series.

USA U20 TEAM

The team is playing in the prestigious Dallas Cup tournament.

Group Stage Matches & Scores:

-Sun Mar 28

USA 0-1 Mexico - Mex goal by Taufic Guarch.

-Mon Mar 29

USA 1-0 Vancouver Whitecaps - USA goal by Moises Orozco.

-Wed Mar 31

USA v Eintracht Frankfurt

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Associated Press with injury recovery reports on both Oguchi Onyewu and Benny Feilhaber.

-Onyewu is very near to training with his team.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Championship League

Kenny Cooper - Plymouth Argyle - came on as a sub in the 88th minute but drew 0-0 at home with Barnsley.

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the distance but lost 1-3 at home to Crystal Palace.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Maurice Edu - Rangers - came on as a sub at half time but lost 4-1 at St Johnstone.

ITALY

The BBC with a real shocking revelation - Jose Mourinho doesn't like the Italian press corp.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Estudiantes joins Sao Paulo & Alianza Lima in advancing to the knock out stages.

dN

Juan Aurich, Bolivar, Blooming & Nacional of Paraguay have been eliminated.

dN

GROUP STAGE (runs through to Apr 22) - This Weeks Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 30

Juan Aurich 0-2 Estudiantes - Est goals by Gaston Fernandez & Rodrigo Brana.

Libertad 1-1 Lanus - Lib goal by Adalberto Roman. Lan goal by Maximiliano Velasquez.

-Wed Mar 31

Monterrey v Sao Paulo

Internacional v Cerro

Morelia v Banfield

Cruzeiro v Velez Sarsfield

-Thu Apr 1

Once Caldas v Nacional

Corinthians v Cerro Porteno

Emelec v Quito

dN

Standings (6 Rounds):

Grupo 1 (3 played)

7 Corinthians (Brazil)

7 Racing Club (Uruguay) (4 played)

3 Independiente Medellin (Colombia) (4 played)

1 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay)

Grupo 2 (4 played)

ADV-9 Sao Paulo (Brazil)

8 Once Caldas (Colombia)

2 Monterrey (Mexico)

OUT-0 Nacional (Paraguay)

Grupo 3 (4 played)

ADV-12 Alianza Lima (Peru)

ADV-10 Estudiantes de la Plata (Argentina) (5 played)

OUT-3 Juan Aurich (Peru) (5 played)

OUT-1 Bolivar (Bolivia)

Grupo 4 (4 played)

9 Libertad (Paraguay) (5 played)

8 Universitario (Peru)

7 Lanus (Argentina) (5 played)

OUT - 0 Blooming (Bolivia)

Grupo 5 (3 played)

7 Cerro (Uruguay)

5 Internacional (Brazil)

4 Deportivo Quito (Ecudador)

0 Emelec (Ecuador)

Grupo 6 (4 played)

10 Banfield (Argentina)

5 Nacional (Uruguay)

4 Morelia (Mexico)

3 Cuenca (Ecudador)

Grupo 7 (4 played)

10 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina)

7 Cruzeiro (Brazil)

4 Colo Colo (Chile)

1 Italia (Venezuela)

Grupo 8 (3 played)

7 Universidad Chile (Chile)

6 Flamengo (Brazil)

3 Universidad Catolica (Chile) (4 played)

2 Caracas FC (Venezuela) (4 played)

ENDERS

Cindy und Bert!

Thanks to SM for the heads up on this stunner!
