STARTERS

The floodgates appear to be open on MLS rosters with teams announcing signings left and right. See new MLS Movement section below.

dN

The USA U20 team won the prestigious Milk Cup today in Northern Ireland, beating the hosts 3-0 in the final. Hooray Near-Beer. See more details in the USA U20 section below.

dN

Seems like every newspaper in the world had a story today saying "Landon Donovon expresses interest in returning to Everton."

-My question then becomes: If David Silva is worth a 30 Million Pound transfer, then what is LD worth? Sure as hell isn't that 10 Million being tossed around by English newspapers.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The Preliminary Round of the knock out stage 1st Leg matches are now complete. 16 teams are paired to play home and away for 8 spots in the Group Stage.

dN

Preliminary Round Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Jul 27

Toronto FC (Canada) 1-0 Motagua (Honduras) - TFC goal by Chad Barrett.

San Juan Jabloteh (Trinidad & Tobago) 0-1 Santos Laguna (Mexico) - SL goal by Rodrigo Ruiz.

San Francisco (Panama) 2-3 Cruz Azul (Mexico) - SF goals by Eduardo Jimenez & Gabriel Torres. CZ goals all by Emaunuel Villa(3).

Los Angeles Galaxy (USA) 1-4 Puerto Rico Islanders (Puerto Rico) - LAG goal by Richard Martinez(OG). PRI goals by David Foley, Nicholas Addlery(2) & Josh Hansen.

-Wed Jul 28

Tauro FC (Panama) 0-3 Marathon (Honduras) - Mar goals by Claudio Labarinas(2) & Milton Palacios.

Seattle Sounders (USA) 1-0 Isidro Metapan (El Salvador) - SS goal by Fredy Montero.

Brujas (Costa Rica) 2-2 Joe Public (Trinidad & Tobago) - Bru goals by Andres Nunez & Jose Cordero. JP goals by Kerry Baptiste & Trent Noel.

-Thu Jul 29

CD FAS (El Salvador) 1-1 Xelaju (Guatemala) - Fas goal by Williams Reyes. Xel goal by Nelson Crossa.

dN

2nd Leg

-Tue Aug 3

Motagua (Honduras) v Toronto FC (Canada) (0-1)

Cruz Azul (Mexico) v San Francisco (Panama) (3-2)

Isidro Metapan (El Salvador) v Seattle Sounders (USA) (0-1)

-Wed Aug 4

Santos Laguna (Mexico) v San Juan Jabloteh (Trinidad & Tobago) (1-0)

Puerto Rico Islanders (Puerto Rico) v Los Angeles Galaxy (USA) (4-1)

Marathon (Honduras) v Tauro FC (Panama) (3-0)

-Thu Aug 5

Joe Public (Trinidad & Tobago) v Brujas (Costa Rica) (2-2)

Xelaju (Guatemala) v CD FAS (El Salvador) (1-1)

dN

2nd Leg matches are all next week Tue-Thu. We will post the schedule on Monday.

TEAM USA

Our team is back in action on Aug 10 at the new Giants Stadium in New Jersey against the mighty canary shirted Brazil.

dN

And Bob Bradley WILL coach that team.

dN

We will know the USA roster probably on Tuesday. Will it be a celebration of the World Cup team, or a changing of the guard?

dN

Ticket sales have passed the 50,000 mark.

dN

Friendly Match & Score:

-Tue Aug 10

USA v Brazil

Venue: New Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

TWITTERVERSE

Houston midfielder Geoff Cameron returns from knee surgery:

-geoffcameron: "It feels good getting back on the training pitch! Excited for practice!"

dN

Freddy Adu's tryout at Sion in Switzerland ends with no offer of contract:

-FreddyAdu11: "Hopefully some good news in the next couple days. I know I'm going to be praying. Until then I will be incognito. Ill keep you updated."

STORY OF THE DAY

Arch Bell of Yanks Abroad talks to Jozy Altidore who is hoping to stay at Villarreal this season and get a shot at real playing time.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated reports that the MLS board of governors is discussing a plan to expand the league schedule from 30 to 34 games for next season, keeping intact the home and away with every team.

-To me, anything other than that is unacceptable.

WTF

The Chosun Ilbo with a story on the treatment that the North Korean soccer team have been given since their return from the World Cup.

-Let's put it this way - they did NOT get a heroes welcome.

-A quote: "...the team were made to stand on a stage ... and subjected to ideological criticism for six hours.... Around 400 officials including the vice minister of the Workers' Party, Sports Minister Pak Myong-chol, other athletes and sport students were apparently part of the audience."

MLS WEEK 18

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Jul 31

Philadelphia Union v New England Revolution - 2:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: PPL Park - Chester PA

Colorado Rapids v FC Dallas - 3:00pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Kansas City Wizards v Toronto FC - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: CommunityAmerica Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Houston Dynamo v New York Red Bulls - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Real Salt Lake v DC United - 8:00pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

San Jose Earthquakes v Seattle Sounders - 9:00pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Chivas USA v Columbus Crew - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Sun Aug 1

Los Angeles Galaxy v Chicago Fire - 6:30pm Central on FSC

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Red Bulls forward Macoumba Kandji got his green card, so he comes off the team's international player portion of the roster. NOTE: I was told by people much smarter than me that this is old news.

dN

New England has won 4 games in a row without conceding a goal, with the last 3 of them being in SuperLiga. Nonetheless a strong defensive showing.

dN

Michael C Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune says RSL is ready to go this weekend, and expect their 3 All Stars, and the slowly returning from injury Kyle Beckerman to be ready as well.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News feels that RSL forward Robbie Findley is still looking to put it all together this season.

-Would put it this way - he has been pretty useless this year, and I still can't believe he got picked for the World Cup team and Brian Ching did not.

dN

Charlie Corr of EXPN Chicago calls new Fire signing Nery Castillo a piece to the puzzle, not the key to solving it.

dN

Terez Paylor of the Kansas City Star says the Wizards are counting on momentum from their win over Manchester United to propel them down the stretch and toward a playoff birth.

dN

Charles Gooch of the KC Star reviews the "first half" of the Wizards season.

dN

John Boyle of the Everett Herald likes the plan behind Seattle signing Alvaro Fernandez as a Designated Player - he is young and on the rise, not at the end of his career.

dN

Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Houston Chronicle on the Dynamo's great week as hosts of a hugely successful All Star Game. And some other team notes.

dN

And now Houston gets New York and Thierry Henry's league debut at home. Not bad. Lets hope they get a good crowd.

dN

John Meyer of the Denver Post writes about some bad luck for the Rapids, and how it will have to change for their season to move upward.

dN

The Washington Post tells us about new DC midfielder Branko Boskovic, and how the team he is hoping he can be a catalyst for positive change.

dN

Craig Stouffer of the Examiner on DC's forgotten forward Danny Allsopp.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch on some of the nearly unknown players that the Crew are turning into their go to guys.

MLS PLAYER MOVEMENT

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe reports that New England has signed a new forward and midfielder - Ilija Stolica, a 31 year old veteran Serbian from Buducnost Podgorica in Montenego, and Roberto Linck aka Betu, a 22 year old Brazilian (with an American passport) midfielder from Ramnicu Valcea in Romania who also has played indoor for the Chicago Storm.

dN

Dallas announced the signing of 3 players from their academy team: Ruben Luna, Victor Ulloa and Moises Hernandez. All local kids!

-Luna is tipped to have the quickest impact.

dN

Big Apple Soccer has words from MLS commissioner Donald G Garber on the Red Bulls probable signing of Mexican captain Rafael Marquez.

-Marquez has been released from his Barcelona contact today.

dN

Kansas City made 2 moves, releasing midfielder Santiago Hirsig who will now sign with Quilmes in Argentina, and forward Sunil Chhetri will be released from the team for the rest of this season so he can join up with the India national team as they prepare for and then play in the 2011 Asian Cup which is being played during the month of January in Qatar. Chhetri will rejoin the team next year for preseason training.

dN

Philadelphia released their #3 goalkeeper Brian Perk, and then signed midfielder JT Noone. This is Noone's first pro contract.

dN

Colorado acquired fullback Anthony Wallace from Dallas for future lower round draft picks.

MLS YOUTH DEVELOPMENT

In winning the SUM Cup this week, DC United U17 keeper Dakota Niedermeier stopped 5pks in 9 rounds, then took the winning PK himself! Video from the official DC United website.

USSF DIVISION 2

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Jul 31

Crystal Palace Baltimore v Montreal Impact

Carolina RailHawks v Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Portland Timbers

Austin Aztex v Miami FC Blues

-Sun Aug 1

AC St Louis v NSC Minnesota Stars

dN

Standings (Thru Wed Jul 28):

35 Austin - 17 played

33 Rochester - 20 played

33 Vancouver - 20 played

26 Portland - 18 played

26 Minnesota - 21 played

24 Carolina - 16 played

23 Montreal - 19 played

23 Tampa Bay - 18 played

23 Puerto Rico - 18 played

19 Baltimore - 18 played

19 St Louis - 19 played

15 Miami - 18 played

dN

Pro-Rated Standings based on Points Per Game:

2.06 Austin

1.65 Rochester

1.65 Vancouver

1.50 Carolina

1.44 Portland

1.28 Tampa Bay

1.28 Puerto Rico

1.24 Minnesota

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

OUT OF PLAY OFF SPOTS

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

1.21 Montreal

1.06 Baltimore

1.00 St Louis

0.83 Miami

SOCCER IN AMERICA

The website NYSportsJournalism does a Q & A with the agent of Landon Donovan (among others) on how the World Cup has changed the value and marketability of LD.

dN

Creative Loafing in Atlanta called the 33,000 attendance at the Man City v Club America game in the Georgia Dome the "Disappointment of the Week." They wonder how the city can bid for to host World Cup games if that is all they can draw.

USA U20 TEAM

The team has won the championship in Ballymena, Northern Ireland at the annual Milk Cup tournament.

dN

The USA triple headed strike force of Omar Salgado, Juan Agudelo and Adrian Ruelas scored 5 goals in the tournament.

dN

Match report from the tournament website.

-Including high praise for our boys by the Northern Ireland coach.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Mon Jul 26

USA 1-0 China - USA goal by Omar Salgado.

-Wed Jul 28

USA 3-2 Denmark - USA goals by Adrian Ruelas(2) & Fuad Ibrahim.

-Fri Jul 30

Title Match:

USA 3-0 Northern Ireland - USA goals by Gale Agbossoumonde, Juan Agudelo & Adrian Reulas.

dN

USA Roster:

G:

Samir Badr - Porto

Zac MacMath - Maryland

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Braga

Bryan De La Fuente - Chivas USA

Greg Garza - Estoril Praia

Sacir Hot - Boston College

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Zarek Valentin - Akron

Ethan White - Maryland

M:

Fuad Ibrahim - Toronto FC

Francisco Navas Cobo - Houston Dynamo

Alex Molano - Dinamo Zagreb

Ernest Nungaray - Morelia

Dillon Powers - Notre Dame

Conor Shanosky - DC United

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Adrian Ruelas - Santos Laguna

Omar Salgado - Unattached

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE - Third Qualifying Round

1st Leg

-Thu Jul 29

Daniel Antunez - Inter Turku - went the full 90 but got smoked 1-5 at home by Genk.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - played the whole match but lost 0-1 at home to Sporting.

ENGLAND

The folks at When Saturday Comes with a renewed sense of optimism for a more wide open title race as this years Premiership season draws near. But they are still delusional in thinking that "new blood" (besides the team with the most money in the world Manchester City) are going to compete for the title.

dN

The Guardian explains some new Premier League rules that set limits on rosters and foreign players etc.

dN

Long time England goalkeeper David James has signed a one year deal with Bristol City in the English Championship Division.

dN

Daniel Taylor of the Guardian says Mark Hughes is the right man for the Fulham head coaches job.

SPAIN

Side Lowe of the Guardian with an article on Racing Santander's 18 year old wunderkind Sergio Canales.

GERMANY

German World Cup revelation Sami Khedira has been transfered from Stuttgart to Real Madrid.

GRATUITOUS DIEGO FORLAN PHOTO

Here is Diego this week in Kolkata India, presumably relaxing before his preseason begins at Atletico Madrid.

Photo taken from Diego's own Twitter feed.
