It's Day 276 of 2017.

A letter from Toronto FC captain Michael Bradley, reflecting on winning the Supporters Shield.

dN

Who expected Vancouver to be the front runner in the MLS Western Conference with just 3 weeks left in the season? Not many. But this is a team that several people who write about soccer regularly have seen as a challenger the past few years. A challenger that always fell very flat. Could this be the year. For some reason I can't explain I had picked Vancouver as the winner of MLS Cup last year - but not this year.

dN

A look at how FOX's plans to broadcast next summer's Mens World Cup. By Richard Deitsch for Sports Illustrated.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Schedule:

-Tue Oct 3

Atlanta United v Minnesota - 6:00pm CT on Ch29

Some AU Stats:

Currently 3rd place in East

Clinched playoff berth

66 GF - 35 GA - +31 GD

Haven't allowed a goal in 392 minutes.

Top goal scorer Josef Martinez and goalkeeper Brad Guzan has off on national team duty

Top playmaker Almiron is out due to a hamstring strain

This will be their 8th game in 24 days

Their last loss was 9 games ago on Aug 23

Their loss prior to that was Jun 21

Oddly, both losses were to DC United

Hector Villalba 12 goals (also has 1o assists)

Yamil Asad 6 goals (also has 12 assists)

Julian Gressel 4 goals (also has 9 assists)

MEDIA:

Match preview - The end of a long stretch of games for Atlanta. By Doug Roberson for The Atlanta Journal Constitution.

Match preview - Extra motivation for the rematch. By Megan Ryan for Star Tribune.

More pregame notes. By Ryan.

Minn coach Adrian Heath is unhappy with some of his players and is looking forward to improving the roster in the off season. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

*Last week the MNUFC players talked about coming together stronger. This week the coach throws cold water on their enjoyment with each other.

dN

USMNT WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Marcelo Balboa, Taylor Twellman, Kasey Keller and Herculez Gomez discuss the current state of the USMNT. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Panama revenge! By Avi Creditor for Sports Illustrated.

This certainly isn't the first time qualifying for the World Cup has found the USMNT in a dire situation. By Scott French for Four Four Two.

The number of CONCACAF players flowing into MLS has made it harder for the USA to pull any surprises or keep any mystique. So says players from Costa Rica, T+T, and Jamaica. By Thomas Floyd for Goal.

Minnesota United players Kevin Molino and Jermaine Taylor quoted in this article.

Schedule:

-Fri Oct 6

USA v Panama - 6pm CT on ESPN2

Orlando City Stadium, Orlando

dN

WORLD CUP

Several teams can take their place at the World Cup this week. By Ed Aarons for the Guardian.

dN

MLS

A certainly mentality has made Toronto, not long ago the laughing stock of MLS, the best team this season, and maybe one of the best ever in the league. By John Molinaro for Sports Net.

Does Bob Bradley have anything to prove after Swansea? From PA Sports. Via ESPNFC.

Columbus has signed Federico Higuain for another season.

Week 31 Schedule:

-Tue Oct 3

Atlanta v Minnesota

-Sat Oct 7

New York RB v Vancouver

Minnesota v KC

Colorado v Dallas

dN

Potential owners of a MLS team in Detroit have registered a trademark for Motor City Soccer Club. By Kurt Nagl for Crain's.

dN

Renan Gorne of North Carolina named NASL Player Of The Week

Justin Morrow of Toronto named MLS Player Of The Week

Jose Angulo of OKC Energy named USL Player Of The Week

Jessica Fishlock of Seattle Reign named NWSL Player Of The Week

dN

AUSTRALIA

The A-League season preview in two parts: PART ONE - and - PART TWO. From the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
