STARTERS

Edson Buddle scored 2 more goals for Los Angeles bringing him to 9 already this season, but someone else on his team finally scored a goal too, as Buddle set up AJ DeLaGarza for the opener.

BIG EURO LEAGUES TITLE RACE WEEKEND MATCHES

The Netherlands Eredivisie 2009/10 Champion is Twente Enschede! Congratulations!

Top Eredivisie Team Standings (34 of 34 games played)

86 Twente Enschede - Final: Sun May 2 W 0-2 at NAC Breda - (GD +40)

85 Ajax Amsterdam - Final: Sun May 2 W 1-4 at NEC Nijmegen - (GD +86)

dN

Chelsea can now win at home next weekend and take the title away from Man U. And that would make Liverpool fans very happy. miserable creatures that they are! Hahahaha.

Top Premier League Team Standings (37 of 38 games played)

83 Chelsea - Last: Sun May 2 W 0-2 at Liverpool - (GD +63) - Final: Sun May 9 v Wigan

82 Manchester United - Last: Sun May 2 W 0-1 at Sunderland - (GD +54) - Final: Sun May 9 v Stoke

dN

Schalke choked at home all but handing the crown to Bayern. Both play on the road to finish the season next Sunday.

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (33 of 34 games played)

67 Bayern Munich - Last: Sat May 1 W 3-1 v Bochum - (GD +39) - Final: Sat May 8 at Hertha Berlin

64 Schalke - Last: Sat May 1 L 0-2 v Werder Bremen - (GD +22) - Final: Sat May 8 at Mainz

dN

Still not over as Benfica got stomped by their big rivals to keep the race alive for Braga to steal on the final day.

Top Liga Team Standings (29 of 30 games played)

73 Benfica - Last: Sat May 2 L 3-1 at Porto - (GD +57) - Final: Sun May 9 v Rio Ave

70 Braga - Last: Sat May 2 W 1-0 v Pacos de Ferreira - (GD +28) - Final: Sun May 9 at Nacional de Madeira

dN

Milan is eliminated from the chase being 9 back with 2 to play. The Lazio fans roared Inter to victory keeping them ahead of dreaded rivals Roma.

Top Serie A Team Standings (36 of 38 games played)

76 Inter - Last: Sun May 2 W 0-2 at Lazio

74 Roma - Last: Sat May 1 W 1-2 at Parma

67 Milan - Last: Sat May 1 W 1-0 v Fiorentina

dN

Bordeaux the defending champs have been eliminated from the chance to repeat. Surprise team Montpellier is out of the title hunt as well.

Top Ligue 1 Team Standings (35 of 38 games played)

72 Marseille - Last: Fri Apr 30 D 0-0 at Auxerre

67 Auxerre - Last: Fri Apr 30 D 0-0 v Marseille

64 Lille - Last: Sun May 2 W 3-1 v Nancy

62 Lyon - 34 played - Last: Sun May 2 W 0-1 at Montpellier

60 Bordeaux - Last: Wed Apr 28 L 2-0 at Valenciennes - Then: Sun May 2 W 1-0 v Toulouse

60 Montpellier - Last: Sun May 2 L 0-1 v Lyon

dN

Status quo.

Top Primera Division Team Standings (35 of 38 games played)

90 Barcelona - Last: Sat May 1 W 1-4 at Villarreal

89 Real Madrid - Last: Sun May 2 W 3-2 v Osasuna

QUOTE OF THE DAY

From an article by Davidde Corran of The Roar, in Australia, talking about that country founding a league cup:

"Right now I’m in Washington D.C. to interview Danny Allsopp and Lisa De Vanna. On Wednesday evening, I had the pleasure of attending RFK Stadium where Allsopp’s DC United defeated FC Dallas 4-2 in the US Open Cup.

All I can say is, what a disaster. There were a pitiful 2,000 fans in attendance, almost no media presence, and not even those 6 goals could save this game.

It had me thinking that FFA must ensure that the creation of any similar competition in Australia doesn’t turn out the same way."

QUESTION OF THE DAY

Will we have to wait for a new edition of the podcast "Waiting For Gaetjens" as long as we have been waiting for the return of Joe Gaetjens?

STORY OF THE DAY

Tom Humphries of the Irish Times meets up with the polarizing Roy Keane, who tells it as he sees it on all topics.

TWITTERVERSE/FACEBOOKING

What is this? Manchester United in Kansas City? Could that be for real? How many would show up? Here is a message on Twitter from KC Wiz honcho Robb Heineman: @RobbHeineman man u is coming

WHY NOT!

David Letterman hosts David Beckman, and the two talk ankle surgery etc, with a gruesome picture too. See the video clip here.

-Letterman gives him a lot of shit about AC Milan!!!

MLS WEEK 6

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 1

DC United 0-2 New York Red Bulls - NYRB goals by Ibriahim Salou & Juan Pablo Angel.

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

Attendance: 12,089

New England Revolution 1-1 FC Dallas - NER goal by Zack Schilawski. FCD goal by Attiba Harris.

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Attendance: 10,057

Houston Dynamo 3-0 Kansas City Wizards - HD goals by Luis Landin, Brian Mullan & Samuel Appiah.

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Attendance: 16,042

Chicago Fire 1-1 Chivas USA - CF goal by Baggio Husidic. CUSA goal by Maicon Santos.

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 13,224

Real Salt Lake 2-1 Toronto FC - RSL goals by Jamison Olave & Andy Williams. TFC goal by Dwayne DeRosario(PK).

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 12,659

San Jose Earthquakes 1-0 Colorado Rapids - SJE goal by Chris Wondolowski.

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 8,674

Los Angeles Galaxy 3-1 Philadelphia Union - LAG goals by AJ DeLaGarza & Edson Buddle(2). PU goal by Jack McInerney.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 15,453

Seattle Sounders FC 1-1 Columbus Crew - SS goal by Steve Zakuani. CC goal by Steven Lenhart.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 36,219

dN

EJECTIONS:

-Kheli Dube - New England - red card

-Joseph Niouky - New England - red card

-Davy Arnaud - Kansas City - red card

-Stefani Miglioranzi - Philadelphia - red card

-Danny O´Rourke - Columbus - 2 yellow cards

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Edson Buddle continues his hot streak by being named Player Of The Week again.

dN

Reviews of all the weekend action from the holy trinity of soccer writing:

-Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet

-Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated

-Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com

dN

Brian Jennings of Soccer 365 with an article on Colorado's new starting left fullback Danny Earls, who because he is in the media sinkhole of Denver no one knows about him.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch talks to Crew forward Steven Lenhart, and finds out that with Lenhart's big head of sheep hair he naturally follows the ultimate Sheppard.

dN

And the Dispatch with their usual quality recap of the weekend's Crew game.

dN

I have no idea why I can't ever get this one on time, but here is another of Steve Sirk's great Crew related long posts, and of course its a week late by me. It's still always great reading though.

dN

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe talks to New England coach Steve Nicol about his teams overworked players, heavy schedule and promising rookie forward.

dN

Marc Narducci of the Philadelphia Inquirer on Union forward Jack McInery's first professional goal.

dN

Jonathan Tannenwald of the Philly.com on red cards, Roger Torres, Jack McInerny and more Union issues.

dN

James Edward of the Deseret News catches up with RSL's Andy Williams who talks about the stress of his wife's ongoing battle with leukemia, and being away from home for his job.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer on the terrific start to his MLS coaching career for New York's Hans Backe.

DU NORD PLAYER OF THE WEEK

Dominic Oduro of Houston is our Player of the Week.

The winner each week gets a cookie.

MY THOUGHTS

DC has clearly hit rock bottom, as they got blown out at home by rivals NYRB.

It takes more than 4 San Jose home games to equal the attendance of 1 Seattle home game.

Dominic Oduro in Houston had his best game ever as a pro. He was flying all over the field unsettling the defense, passing to teammates in precise spots at fantastic moments (including setting up 2 of 3 goals), and doing it all with a lot of happiness.

Oduro and Luis Landin looked pretty good together too. And Landin's little chip goal (which was must more difficult to pull off then you might imagine) was exactly the reason Houston signed him. Now he has to do that every game.

A lot of people have been saying that Davy Arnaud should not have been red carded for the challenge on Houston keeper Pat Onstad. I disagree, as Arnaud stretched at full speed and put the bottom of his foot right into Onstad's wrist/hand. I only see red in that case. You be the judge.

Patrick Nyarko is the Oduro of Chicago, or is that the other way around. Both have speed to excess, and both dribble like a newborn deer - all wobbley legged. Yet, amazingly effective.

And what has happened to the attendance of the Los Angeles Galaxy. 15.4K for a team that is rolling big time and has America's best known player? Who is in charge of marketing?

LA is playing some fantastic soccer right now, with all 3 lines getting top marks.

And the Galaxy also appear to have another rookie of the year candidate in midfielder Michael Stephens.

All in all Colorado probably outplayed San Jose, but the Quakes but the kibosh on Omar Cummings like few have in the past year, and keeper Joe Cannon made the key save for victory. I did not expect them to have this many points at this stage of the game.

Speaking of points, New York now has 5 wins. Guess when they got win #5 last season? Yes'm, that's right, the final day.

Someone turned on the hotseat this weekend. And normally new coaches get a long rope in MLS, but Curt Onalfo at DC is off to the worst start in team history. Ouch. That's hot. They did win in the Open Cup prelim's which is good, and they have another shot on Wednesday night to get things moving. But they are already 16 points behind league leading LA.

It was always going to be tough for PU to win in LA but to give up a goal in just 51 seconds pretty much seals your fate!

I still really like Roger Torres of Philly, but he had his least effective game of the season.

My ranking of the teams on this weeks performance alone:

1 - Los Angeles Galaxy - great first half, then coasted

2 - Houston Dynamo - total domination of KC who played with 10 for over 50 minutes

3 - New York Red Bulls - thorough road win over lousy team

4 - San Jose Earthquakes - nice home win over hot team

5 - Real Salt Lake - good home win

6 - Columbus Crew - strong road draw

7 - Seattle Sounders - played well, couldn't finish

8 - New England Revolution - not good, but a draw with only 9 players

9 - Chivas - decent effort in road tie

10 - Chicago Fire - again struggling at home, but drew

11 - FC Dallas - couldn't beat 9 men

12 - Toronto - left 2 stars on bench until late and lost away

13 - Colorado Rapids - mustered very little offense all game and lost

14 - Philadelphia Union - bad team who are not better or worse then before, but another red card

15 - Kansas City Wizards - got drilled by Houston on the road

16 - DC United - another bad loss at home for a team where almost nothing is working

Here is my favorite goal of the weekend - Chris Wondolowski of San Jose roofs it first time. I love volleys like this. The keeper has no time to set up and see the shooters tendency!

You put this baby in your bedroom, then wake up in the middle of the night with it staring at you and nodding, you may never sleep again. Buy one and the money goes to fight Malaria. Thanks to Joe for the heads up.

MLS GOAL SCORING LEADERS

9 Edson Buddle

6 Dwayne DeRosario

4 Juan Pablo Angel

4 Sebastian Le Toux

4 Zach Schilawski

(Six players have 3 goals)

MLS ROOKIE OF THE YEAR CANDIDATES

Tier 1: big time starters

Blair Gavin - Chivas

Ike Opara - San Jose

Tim Ream - New York

Zach Schilawski - New England

Tier 2: starts and quality minutes

Steven Beitashour - San Jose

Zach Loyd - Dallas

Andy Najar - DC United

Seth Sinovic - New England

Michael Stephens - Los Angeles

Collen Warner - Salt Lake

Ben Zemanski - Chivas

Tier 3: flashes of potential starters

Sammy Appiah - Houston

Teal Bunbury - Kansas City

Conor Chinn - New York

Jack McInerny - Philadelphia

Danny Mwanga - Philadelphia

Tony Tchani - New York

MLS RUMORS

This piece of unknown-origin journalism says Thierry Henry has already negotiated his exit from Barcelona, and will head to MLS to play for New York, oooooooooooorrrrrrrrr...... DC.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

Newly added:

-Sun Jun 13

New England Revolution v Cruzeiro (Brazil)

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

USSF DIVISION 2

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 8

Montreal Impact 1-0 Puerto Rico Islanders

Rochester Rhinos 1-1 Carolina RailHawks

NSC Minnesota Stars 1-2 Austin Aztex

AC St. Louis 1-0 Crystal Palace Baltimore

Miami FC Blues 1-1 Tampa Bay Rowdies

dN

Standings (As of Sun May 2):

10 Portland - 4 played

9 Austin - 4 played

8 Rochester - 5 played

7 Vancouver - 4 played

6 Puerto Rico - 3 played

6 Minnesota - 6 played

4 Carolina - 3 played

4 Tampa Bay - 3 played

4 Montreal - 3 played

3 Miami - 3 played

3 St Louis - 4 played

0 Baltimore - 3 played

NSC MINNESOTA STARS

I arrived at the game very late on Saturday, walking up as Austin scored the game winner. I was quickly filled in on the fact that the Stars had suffered a Red Card, and it was drawn by none other than world famous diver, and avid du Nord reader, Jamie Watson. The salt in wound came after the game though when Watson admited to Minnesota players that he had in fact lived up to the song sung about him for 5 years now in our home stadium: "You dive like Jamie Watson." Yes, he took a dive ladies and gentleman. What have you got to say for yourself Jamie?

dN

We only had 700 people in the stands too - very very depressing.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Luis Robles & Kaiserslautern won promotion back to the Bundesliga 1 for next season. Hooray Pilsner!

dN

A big road win for Benny Feilhaber and Aarhus pulled them out of the relegation zone with 3 games left to play.

dN

Kenny Cooper & Plymouth Argyle (managed by former New England assistant Paul Mariner) have been relegated to the English 3rd division (League One) for next season.

dN

Frank Simek & Sheffield Wednesday have also been relegated out of the English Championship division and into League One for next season.

dN

Jay DeMerit was still not healthy enough to play for Watford this weekend.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

GREECE - Super League European Tournament Playoffs:

Freddy Adu - Aris - Sun May 2 - went the full 90 but lost 2-0 at PAOK.

Eddie Johnson - Aris - Sun May 2- started and played 67 minutes but lost 2-0 at PAOK.

DENMARK - Superliga

Benny Feilhaber - AGF Aarhus - started and went 71 minutes as they won 1-4 at Silkeborg.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - played the full 90 and drew 1-1 at home against Randers.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - started and played 86 minutes, scoring the first goal, as they won 3-2 at home over West Ham.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - played the entire game but lost 3-1 at Manchester City.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - played the whole game but lost 3-1 at Portsmouth.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the full 90 and drew 0-0 at Stoke.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - went the distance but lost 3-2 at Fulham.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - came on as a sub in the 84th minute but lost 1-0 at Charlton.

Eric Lichaj - Leyton Orient - played the entire game and won 2-0 at home over Wycombe.

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - started and went 70 minutes but lost 2-0 at Leyton.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - west the distance but lost at home 1-2 to Sochaux.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - played the full 90 but got hammered 6-1 at Hannover.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the distance in a 6-1 home win over Gladbach.

Ricardo Clark - Eintracht Frankfurt - went the full 90 but lost at home 1-2 to Hoffenheim.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Luis Robles - Kaiserslautern - got a rare start and went the distance in a 2-2 draw.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - went the full 90 and drew 0-0 at home against Haugesund.

Di Vita Jensen - Honefoss - came on as a sub in the 90th minute as they drew 1-1 at home with Molde.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - came on as a sub in the 28th minute as they won 1-2 at Dundee United

Maurice Edu - Rangers - went the distance and they won 1-2 at Dundee United.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Ryan Miller - Halmstad - went the full 90 but lost 1-0 at Brommapojkarna.

Micheal Thomas - Halmstad - came on as a sub in the 75th minute but lost 1-0 on the road to Brommapojkarna.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Hunter Freeman - Start - Mon May 3 at Aalesund

Clarence Goodson - Start - Mon May 3 at Aalesund

GREECE - Super League European Tournament Playoffs:

Freddy Adu - Aris - Wed May 5 - at AEK Athens

Eddie Johnson - Aris - Wed May 5 - at AEK Athens

NETHERLANDS - Nacompetitie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - Thu May 6 v Sparta Rotterdam - Sun May 9 at Sparta Rotterdam

*An 8 playoff for 2 promotion spots in the top flight between #2-#7 in the Erste and #16 & #17 in the Ere Divisions.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION - Playoff Game Action

Jose Torres - Pachuca - went the full 90 as they won the 1st leg 1-0 at home over defending champs Monterrey.

MEXICO

Clausura 2010 playoffs.

Matches & Scores - Quarterfinals:

1st Leg

-Sat May 1

Pachuca 1-0 Monterrey - Pac goal by Damian Alvarez.

Morelia 4-2 Guadalajara - Mor goals by Marvin Cabrera, Luis Rey, Gabriel Pereyra & Jared Borgetti. Gua goals by Jorge Garcia & Omar Bravo.

-Sun May 2

Santos Laguna 2-0 UNAM - SL goals by Walter Jimenez & Vicente Vuoso.

America 2-2 Toluca - Ame goals by Jean Beausejour & Miguel Layun. Tol goals by Hector Mancilla & Edgar Duenas.

2nd Leg

-Sat May 8

Monterrey v Pachuca (0-1)

Guadalajara v Morelia (2-4)

-Sun May 9

Toluca v America (2-2)

UNAM v Santos Laguna (0-2)

dN

Laguilla Bracket:

Monterrey v Pachuca

UNAM v Santos Laguna

- - - - -

Guadalajara v Morelia

Toluca v America

CANADA

The Toronto Globe & Mail has a fascinating article on a new cultural division in Canada - soccer v hockey.

ENGLAND

The Premier League Relegation battle ends with 1 week in the season left to play.

OUT-28 Hull City

OUT-27 Burnley

OUT-16 Portsmouth

dN

Newcastle & West Bromich Albion have been promoted back up from the Championship.

-And 4 more teams will playoff for the last promotion spot:

Semifinal Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Sat May 8

Blackpool v Nottingham Forest

-Sun May 9

Leicester City v Cardiff City

2nd Leg

-Tue May 11

Nottingham Forest v Blackpool

-Wed May 12

Cardiff City v Leicester City

SPAIN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on the remarkable turnaround season of Valencia, and the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

dN

Phil Ball of Soccernet sees more weight than ever put on the role of team manager.

dN

Teams #9-20 are all possible for La Liga relegation with 3 rounds left to play (45 points is the line right now) - 3 go down:

44 Deportivo La Coruna

43 Atletico Madrid

41 Espanyol

39 Osasuna

38 Sporting Gijon

38 Almeria

37 Real Zaragoza

36 Racing Santander

35 Malaga

- - - - -

35 Tenerife

33 Valladolid

30 Xerez

FRANCE

FIFA.com does a Q & A with national team winger Franck Ribery.

dN

PSG has won the French Cup!

COUPE DE FRANCE - Final

-Sat May 1

Monaco 0-1 Paris St Germain - tied 0-0 after regulation the game was won in Extra Time.

dN

The bottom 3 teams from Ligue 1 will be relegated (39 is now the magic number) - 3 games left to play:

SAFE-43 Lens

SAFE-41 Nice

SAFE-41 Sochaux

- - - - -

36 St Etienne

- - - - -

29 Le Mans

28 Boulogne

OUT-19 Grenoble

GERMANY

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian reports on the ugly play and zero budget of Schalke who still managed 2nd this season (and are pleased with it), and the rest of the weekend in the Bundesliga.

dN

The struggle against relegation will see 3 teams fail (bottom 2 go down automatically, and 3rd from bottom plays 3rd from top in B2 in a 2 legged playoff) (32 is the safety number) - with 1 game left to play:

SAFE-32 Freiburg

30 Hannover

- - - - -

28 Nurnberg

- - - - -

28 Bochum

OUT-24 Hertha Berlin

Hertha has been officially relegated.

ITALY

Gazzetta Dello Sports reports on Roma being furious over the fact that their bitter stadium-sharing rival Lazio appeared to roll over and help Inter toward the title.

dN

Gazzetta then talks to Inter owner Mossimo Morrati about the bizzare scene at the Stadio Olimpico that had Lazio fans cheering for Inter even though they were playing against them - as in: We hate Roma so we will cheer for their opponent for the title.

-He also talks about Mourinho and Balotelli.

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Lazio's perceived bagman job, and the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

dN

Relegation from Serie A happens to the bottom 3 teams (42 is the lucky number) - there are 2 games left to be played:

SAFE-46 Bari

SAFE-43 Udinese

SAFE-43 Cagliari

41 Catania

40 Lazio

40 Bologna

- - - - -

35 Atalanta

OUT-30 Siena

OUT-29 Livorno

Siena joins Livorno in relegation.

ARGENTINA

Top Primera Division Team Standings (17 of 19 games played)

36 Estudiantes la Plata - Last: Sun May 2 W 1-2 at Chacarita Juniors - Next: Sun May 9 v Rosario Central - Final: Sun May 16 at Colon de Santa Fe

35 Argentinos Juniors - Last: Sun May 2 W 1-2 at San Lorenzo - Next: Sun May 9 v Independiente - Final: Sun May 16 at Huracan

31 Godoy Cruz - Last: Fri Apr 30 L 1-0 at Rosario Central - Next: Mon May 10 v Colon de Sante Fe - Final: Sun May 16 at Arsenal de Sarandi

31 Independiente - Last: Sun May 2 L 2-3 v Boca Juniors - Next: Sun May 9 at Argenintos Juniors - Final: Sun May 16 v Lanus

AFRICA

Simon Kuper of the Financial Times talks to Liberia and Milan legend George Weah about the World Cup, and chewing on turkey bones.

GAZA WORLD CUP

Its the Gaza World Cup, read all about it.

Round of 16

-Sun May 2

Italy-Services Rafah 1-0 Palestine-Al Hilal

-Mon May 3

Netherlands-Al Mashtal 1-4 Russia-Shojaeya

England-Jama3y Rafah 1-2 Ireland-Friendship

-Tue May 4

South Africa-El Shate'e Services v Jordan-Shabab Khan Yunis

USA-Services Maghazi v Serbia-El Zaytoon

-Wed May 5

Spain-Services Nuseirat v France-Shabab Rafah

Algeria-Gaza Sports v Egypt-Ittihad Khan Yunis

-Thu May 6

Turkey-Ahly Nusseirat v Germany-Ahly Gaza

Quarterfinals

-Sat May 8

Q1 - Russia v Ireland

Q2 - Winner Spain/France v Winner USA/Serbia

-Sun May 9

Q3 - Italy v Winner Turkey/Germany

Q4 - Winner South Africa/Jordan v Winner Algeria/Egypt

Semifinals

-Wed May 12

Winner Quarter 1 v Winner Quarter 2

Winner Quarter 3 v Winner Quarter 4

Final

-Sat May 15

ENDERS

Which one of these two guys do you hate more? That is one of the hardest question I have ever been asked. EVER!

And one of them will be holding up that Premiership trophy as the champion next weekend.
