It's Day 242 of 2017.

The Houston Dash and Houston Dynamo soccer clubs are encouraging anyone who wants to contribute to the Hurricane disaster funds to connect with the Red Cross. Their city is just getting crushed. Please help if you can.

You can also text HARVEY to 90999 to make a $10 donation.

dN

Great article today about the soccer team I love to support, Minnesota United, and my amazing fellow fans. By Chris Nietupski for City Pages.

dN

USMNT - World Cup Qualifying

Tim Howard: “The makeup of this (USMNT) team is probably the best I’ve ever seen.”

The Christian Pulisic press conference drew a big crowd:

Grant Wahl for Sports Illustrated

Paul Kennedy for Soccer America

Thomas Lipe for New York Post

The game on Friday night is in Harrison NJ at Red Bull Arena, and there are no less than 5 former members of that team on this USA roster: Altidore, Bradley, Howard, McCarty and Ream.

First ever World Cup qualifier in the New York City metro area. US Soccer expects pro-USA crowd. By Stefan Bondy for New York Daily News.

After a 2016 in which everything came up just a little short for Michael Bradley he is looking for 2017 to have a better ending. By Michael Lewis for Front Row Soccer.

The mood of this USA squad compared to 10 months ago is a remarkable turnaround. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

What will Fabian Johnson's role be? Outside midfield or fullback? By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

The Costa Ricans are preparing for the USA. By Arch Bell for ESPNFC.

Including Francisco Calvo and Johan Venegas from Minnesota United.

Schedule:

-Fri Sep 1

USA v Costa Rica - 5:55pm CT on ESPN

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

A lot of MNUFC updates: Summer signing Jose Leiton has arrived, Cronin has a concussion, Kapp sent out on loan, Bashkim Kadrii has fled the country(!), other injury notes on Ramirez and Kallman, plus more. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

More Loons updates: (some similar topics) but also interesting words on JVenegas, Burch health and the Italian Bomba sandwich. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Brent Kallman has been dealing with a couple of injuries. We knew about the knee, but did you know he had surgery for testicular torsion (a twisted testicle). Yeeeeouch! Plus he helps coach a high school team. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

dN

Crocus: du Nord Music Mix Vol 136 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Tim Leiweke is the person who convinced the owners of TFC to open their check book then found the management team that turned the team from laughing stock to power house. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

Week 26 Schedule:

(4 games)

-Sat Sep 2

New England v Orlando

Montreal v Chicago

Dallas v New York RB

LA v Colorado

dN

The new potential 3rd division American soccer league, lead by our friend Peter Wilt, made their first real announcement today with several teams lining up to join the league. Press release.

More on to days news, plus leagues background and ideology. By Chris Kivlehan for Midfield Press.

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
