-Oh Reyna Reyna Reyna (shaking my head). He is hurt. Knee AND Ankle. Again. And will be out at least a few weeks. A few details were given by Man City's official site, but expect to hear more soon.

-Last weekend in MLS playoffs we had gridiron painted on 3 of 4 fields used - and those 3 were bad games. The one with no pointyball lines was the good one. Karma? Go figure.

-James Richardson from the Guardian gives us this amazing description of new actions on the pitch by my least favorite Italian Francesco Totti. At least this time Totti was funny: In front of goal the Roma captain Totti tamed a high ball and put it through the legs of his marker. A quick give-and-go with Rodrigo Taddei then put Totti one on one with Lazio keeper Marco Ballotta, off whom his shot bounced into the net. Totti's reaction was something special. For weeks he and the city have been counting down to the birth of his first son. Delirious with joy at having a goal - nay, a derby goal - to dedicate to his pregnant wife in the stands, Totti quickly scooped up the ball under his jersey and ran to the sidelines where his cheering team-mates gathered round. As Totti lay on his back, stomach bulging, a stadium held its breath. Would it be a tribute to John Hurt in Alien? No. With makeshift obstetrician Daniele De Rossi gamely groping between the captain's legs, Totti gave birth to the ball, which Sami Kuffour then lifted aloft for the adoring thousands to cheer. "Miming delivery is certainly a departure from the Rock-a-bye Baby celebration we usually get," mused a less-than-enthusiastic Roman daily paper Republica. "Still, at least he didn't re-enact the conception."

-When Bayern Munchen beat Juventus last week in the Champions league, it was their first win over an Italian team in 15 years!

-Want to read something that is a fucking joke???? In Spain last weekend, pretty boy Becks got a red card for mockingly applauding the referee after he was given a yellow card, and the ref sent his ass to the showers early. But now, the league have taken back the red after an appeal by his team, Mighty Real Madrid. If I was that ref I would be pissed off royally (or in this case "Real-y"). UEFA should step in for crap like this. In my book, if you mock the ref, you pay the price! End of story. Unless of course, you are really really really popular and sell a ton of shirts for your club.

-The 2006 African Nations Cup is being held in Egypt, and starts January 20, ending February 10. The group stage draw for the 16 teams was held over this past weekend. Here they are:

Group A - Egypt, Morocco, Ivory Coast, Libya

Group B - Cameroon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Togo, Angola

Group C - Tunisia, South Africa, Guinea, Zambia

Group D - Nigeria, Senegal, Ghana, Zimbabwe

-I have noticed that some of the other voters for the BASA's are posting what their votes were after the winner has been announced. I like that idea. Here are my votes for:

Coach of the Year:

1- Dom Kinnear

2- Steve Nicol

3- Mo Johnston (!)

Goalkeeper of the Year:

1- Matt Reis

2- Pat Onstad

3- Johnny Walker

and todays announced winner

Rookie of the Year:

1- Mike Parkhurst

2- Brad Guzan

3- Chris Rolfe

-FC Dallas has hired Michael Hitchcock as their new GM. The best place to read about it is of course 3rd Degree.

-I can't read any Dutch, but apparently DMB didn't declare some fairly innocuous (clothes, electronics & such) things he brought back from the USA at Netherlands customs, so he is in trouble with Janny Van Law. His court date is Oct 31. What is that all about?? A country where you can smoke weed and poke a hooker legally, but you can't bring an Ipod in with you?

-Tuesday Copa Carling de Inglando scores:

Aston Villa 1-0 Burnley

Blackburn 3-0 Leeds

Crystal Palace 2-1 Liverpool

Doncaster 2-0 Gillingham

Fulham 2-3 West Brom

Mansfield 2-3 Millwall

Reading 2-0 Sheffield United

Sunderland 0-2 Arsenal

Wigan 3-0 Watford

-Four more MLS awards were announced today:

Jimmy Conrad of Kansas City is the leagues Defender Of The Year

Chris Klein also of Kansas City is Comeback Player of the Year

Brian Kamler who retired from Salt Lake at the end of the season is named Humanitarian of the Year

Brian Hall (with Matthew Teff as his Official Fan Club Chairman) is voted Referee of the Year

-Germanys DFB Cup - 2nd Round scores from yesterdays games looked like this:

St. Pauli 4-0 Bochum

Erfurt 2-4 Kaiserslautern

Unterhaching 2-1 Saarbrucken

Bremen 7-6- Wolfsburg (on penalties)

Frankfurt 6-0 Schalke 04 (!!!!!!!)

Nurnberg 3-0 Dresden

Aachen 1-2 Hannover

Freiburg 4-1 Braunschweig

And these games will be played today:

Osnabrück v Mainz

HSV v Leverkusen

1860 Munchen v Duisburg

Bielefeld v Cottbus

Rostock v VfB Stuttgart

Offenbach v Karlsruhe

Hertha BSC v Monchengladbach

Erzg Aue v FC Bayern

-US Soccer has posted an interview with USA Coach Bruce Arena in mp3 format. You can listen to it online, or download it for future listening.

-Santino Quaranta feature from Soccer America's Ridge Mahoney. I would also like to point out that Joe from We Call It Soccer is a huuuuuge fan of Tino, and writes glowing things almost constantly. I could really see the possibilty some day of them getting married, and Joe adopting Tino's kid. Or am I going too far with this?

-Mark Zeigler of the San Diego Union Tribune always writes great soccer stuff. Today he has a story on Dominic Kinnear's great coaching season for San Jose. Don't miss the two sidebars also, "Trophies & Red Cards" and "Sidelines" - both excellent!

-Sir Grayhameh Von Gnosehare of The City Of Angels Times says MLS is still a mess. Is he wrong? Or is he right?

-Games galore in Spain's La Liga today and tomorrow:

Wednesday:

Barcelona v Malaga

Deportivo La Coruna v Real Madrid

Mallorca v Celta Vigo

Osasuna v Athletic Bilbao

Real Betis v Villarreal

Thursday:

Alaves v Espanyol

Atletico Madrid v Cadiz

Real Sociedad v Getafe

Real Zaragoza v Racing Santander

Valencia v FC Sevilla

-And a whole slew in Serie A as well:

Ascoli v Udinese

Cagliari v Livorno

Empoli v Milan

Inter v Roma

Juventus v Sampdoria

Lazio v Chievo Verona

Palermo v Lecce

Parma v Messina

Reggina v Treviso

Siena v Fiorentina

-Lets finish today with something I don't read nearly enough, and that is ESPNSoccernet's The Insider. Always covering great matches, with a clever wit, and great insight. Excellent stuff to read always. Today its a look at The Arse & their moronic PK failure last weekend.
