Several of us gathered last evening at Tron's house to watch Chicago v DC United in the first MLS playoff game of the 05 season. As the pregame kicked in, we are shown that DC's Ben Olson is not dressed for the match, and will sit out do to a calf injury. Then we are given the bomb shell news: Young Master Fredua Adu will also not play. He has been suspended by the team!! After all his public bitching this week about not getting enough playing time, is this the teams punishment? The TV coverage then has a shot of Freddy sitting in a press box wearing a nice suit watching the match, and the commentators insist to us the viewer that Freddy has NOT been suspended due to his mouthing off to the newspapers, but they know nothing more. I am damn sure they do, but for some reason they choose not to cough it up. We are all left to speculate as to "What the hell is going on?" We figure it had to be something that happened after they got to Chicago, or else why would they even bring him along. The one thing I did know, was that our man at the Washington Post, who covers the team the best, Mr Steven Goff, would have some secret lil insider knowledge come this mornings edition of his paper. Sure enough, we gives us this little ditty: Adu was given until the pregame meal Friday to apologize to his teammates for his remarks. Adu decided not to address the team. There you have it. A Primadonna is born. Enjoy it if you can folks. It's ugly at best.

By the way, the game ended in a 0-0 draw. The highlight of the game being the Chicago fans in Section 8 tossing tons of streamers on the field all night long, and then busting out the giant road flares late in the match to brilliant effect.

ADDITION (made Sunday October 23rd): I was hanging out with my buddy Donovan last night, and we were discussing the Freddy Adu dilemma (Nowak asking Freddy to apologize to the team, and Freddy refusing). I stated the case I made here yesterday, but he picked it apart by asking, "How can you make up a new rule for Freddy, with severe consequences, and then expect him to abide by it when you back him into the corner. Plus he is a 16 year old kid." Excellent point by Dono!

Steven Goff of the Washington Post has the latest on the whole situtation from Sunday's edition.
