It's Day 187 of 2017.

Happy Birthday to my mother Ann McGuire!

dN

My latest for 1500ESPN: Minnesota United FC Mid-Season Player Grades & Awards.

dN

du Nord Futbol's MLS Coaches Hot Seat for Jul 1, 2017:

4 Jim Curtin - just not improving year upon year

3 Curt Onalfo - impatient management and prior record

2 Jay Heaps - not getting it done at all

1 Mauro Biello - impatient and reactionary owner

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

I would love to know how many shots the Loons have taken from outside the penalty area this year. It feels like its not been nearly enough. This is one of those little things that loosen up a packed defense.

Technically MN did not have to wait for this transfer window to open to add players because they only had used 25 of the allotted 28 roster spots.

I notice that the national media keeps writing that MNUFC has turned things around from the disastrous first month of the season. In one way that is true - the scorelines - but what they are failing to notice is that the team is slipping back to that same spot at the bottom of the barrel, only this time not so dramatically.

MNUFC looking to add players to roster. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

The article says they are looking at "working on the team and with the squad in depth." I really hope that means, "we are looking for starters." Because that is what they need. Some of the current starters would be good MLS depth players.

I must say, the comments sections on soccer articles in the Star Tribune and Pioneer Press get better every week. Sure there are still some of the old "zzzzzzzzz" and "soccer is boring" posts, and usually something about "taxpayer dollars," but more and more comments are about the actual team and play on the field. Great to see.

Seems as though MN is about to add a forward, this one from NYRB's USL team:

I'm hearing that Brandon Allen's loan deal to #MNUFC is complete, with purchase option at end of season. Will report in next few days. #RBNY

— Jeff Rueter (@jeffrueter) July 6, 2017

I have yet to hear from a NYRB follower who is upset that he is leaving their organization. They say he does have skills around the goal though.

We are still awaiting official word on the Sam Nicholson deal too. Not sure what the team has for open International spots but that could have something to do with the lack of announcement.

Coach Adrian Heath is unhappy with his players. And a break from games comes at a good time. By Jeff Rueter for MLS.

dN

How to win without spending like the big boys. It can be done. But it takes brains and hard work. By Tim Wigmore for Bleacher Report.

Thanks to Wes Burdine and Dave Laidig for the heads up on the article.

dN

MLS

My MLS Notes:

A ton of goals again last night - 22 in 5 games. Hurrah!

Big comeback by Red Bulls, getting the winner in the 90th, on the road.

TFC got it done on the road too, with Giovinco (2 goals + 1 assist) and Altidore (1 goal + 1 assist) as the stars.

Orlando really stinks: their only 2 wins since May 1 are over RSL and DC, two of the other stink bombs in the league.

Someone showed how to slow down Chicago, but still couldn't beat them. Good job, kinda, Portland.

That means another home game for Timbers without a win - 3 of last 5 at home ended in ties. They aren't losing home games either, but ties at home won't get it done in the long run.

Kansas City recruited young Hungarian Daniel Salloi to their academy team and now have visions of him breaking into the rotation of the senior team. By Sam McDowell for the KC Star.

This type of progression is what all MLS clubs need to to be striving for. Not every kid has to be local or start with the team at age 10.

Week 19 schedule/results:

(11 Games)

-Tue Jul 4

Atlanta 4-2 San Jose

Minnesota 0-1 Columbus

Dallas 4-2 DC

Colorado 1-3 Seattle

LA 2-6 Salt Lake

-Wed Jul 5

New England 2-3 New York Red Bulls

Orlando 1-3 Toronto

Houston 3-1 Montreal

Vancouver 3-2 New York City

Portland 2-2 Chicago

-Thu Jul 6

Kansas City v Philadelphia

dN

Topoff: du Nord Music Mix Vol 129 (download + extract)

dN

USMNT

What the USA can take from the Ghana friendly and apply it to the 3 Gold Cup group stage games beginning on Saturday afternoon. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

Who is the top dog in CONCACAF - USA or Mexico? Does it matter? By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

Left fullback is still a big weakness for the current USA player pool. Jorge Villafana is not the answer. It seems like this has been a weakness for a couple decades now.

Gold Cup Group Stage Schedule:

-Sat Jul 8

USA v Panama - 3:30pm CT on FOX

Nissan Stadium - Nashville

-Wed Jul 12

USA v Martinique - 8:00pm CT on FS1

Raymond James Stadium - Tampa

-Sat Jul 15

USA v Nicaragua - 6:00pm CT on FXX

FristEnergy Stadium - Cleveland

USA Gold Cup Roster

G: Brad Guzan - Atlanta United, Bill Hamid - DC United, Sean Johnson - New York City

D: Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Matt Hedges - Dallas, Eric Lichaj - Nottingham Forest, Matt Miazga - Chelsea, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Jorge Villafana - Santos Laguna, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

M: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Joe Corona - Tijuana, Dax McCarty - Chicago Fire, Chris Pontius - Philadelphia Union, Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders, Kelyn Rowe - New England Revolution, Kenny Saief - Gent, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Dom Dwyer - Sporting Kansas City, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

I'll be watching the USMNT in the Twin Cities at Town Hall Brewery in the Seven Corners neighborhood of Minneapolis. Join me in the back room.

dN

Gold Cup

A look at the lesser known teams and players with talent who will be in the Gold Cup. By Elliot Turner for Four Four Two.

Group stage games begin on Fri Jul 7.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

John Brooks is looking forward to a new challenge after transferring to Wolfsburg. By Stephan Uersfeld for ESPNFC.

dN

My columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
