It's Day 197 of 2016.

USL president Jake Edwards talks about the status and future of his league. By Anthony J. Merced of Empire of Soccer.

dN

Copa Libertadores Semifinals:

The two big names are OUT! And it really wasn't even very close.

-Wed Jul 13

Atletico Nacional (COL) 2-1 Sao Paulo (BRA)

- AN advances 4-1 on aggregate.

-Thu Jul 14

Boca Juniors (ARG) 2-3 Independiente del Valle (ECU)

- IdV advances 5-3 on aggregate.

Finals:

-Wed Jul 20

Independiente del Valle (ECU) v Atletico Nacional (COL)

-Wed Jul 27

Atletico Nacional (COL) v Independiente del Valle (ECU)

dN

Ian Curtis, singer of Joy Division, would have turned 60 today. He took his own life in the Spring of 1980. H/T to Joe.

dN

A band with one of the worst names of all time was also one of the very greatest bands I ever saw perform: The Butthole Surfers. An article on just how incredible and incredibly challenging they were at their peak. By Daniel Dylan Wray of Vice.

This quote says it all: “There was this tightrope between entertainment and sheer terror that existed. Very few bands had that kind of power to have you, quite justifiably, fear for your own safety.” (That is exactly how I felt the 3 or 4 times I saw them in '84, '85 and '86)

dN

No one in the USA has a soccer academy as successful as FC Dallas, and its only growing bigger and better. By Peter Welpton of the Dallas News.

Two former Minnesota pro players are coaches in the FCD system - Marco Ferruzzi (asst on the senior coaching staff) and Luchi Gonzalez (academy head coach).

dN

Chicago Fire had this guy on their team and shipped him off to NYCFC without a 2nd thought, now Jack Harrison is bursting onto the scene as a big time prospect. Oh Chicago. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

Go watch the highlights of the Jul 3 match between NYC and RBNY to see just what Harrison is capable of. [VIDEO]

dN

Sean Johnson is back in goal for Chicago Fire and making a difference. By Jon Gallo of Gwinnett Daily Post.

He has only given up 1 goal in 3 games since being reinstated in the starting lineup - 2 wins and a draw.

dN

Longtime TV match commentator JP Dellacamera talks Copa America, Olympics, Philadelphia Union, MLS and more. Q + A by Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com

dN

du Nord's MLS Team Trending Power Rankings: (based on immediate heat from the last 5 games)

01 New York City

02 Sporting KC

03 Dallas

04 LA Galaxy

05 Toronto

06 Vancouver Whitecaps

07 Chicago Fire

08 Philadelphia Union

09 New England Revolution

10 Montreal Impact

11 Colorado Rapids

12 Portland Timbers

13 Houston Dynamo

14 Red Bull New York

15 DC United

16 Real Salt Lake

17 Orlando City

18 Seattle Sounders

19 Columbus Crew

20 San Jose Earthquakes

dN

MLS this weekend - 4 games look to be top notch:

-Sat Jul 16

Colorado Rapids v Sporting Kansas City - 8pm CT on MLS Live

-Sun Jul 17

Portland Timbers v Seattle Sounders 2pm CT on FOX

Montreal Impact v New York City - 4pm CT on ESPN

Phildelphia Union v Red Bull New York - 6pm CT on FS1

dN

Liga MX returns tonight and is targeting big growth in the USA. TV is already good, but they want more. By Scott French of Four Four Two.

Liga MX begins its Apertura season tonight!

-Fri Jul 15

Tijuana v Morelia

-Sat Jul 16

Queretaro v Veracruz

Monterrey v Puebla

Atlas v Toluca

Pachuca v Leon

Necaxa v Cruz Azul

America v Chiapas

-Sun Jul 17

Pumas v Guadalajara

Santos Laguna v Tigres

dN

Minnesota United is out for revenge this weekend as they play Indy Eleven for the 2nd week in a row. Down in Nap town it was a Minn mistake that lead to a late goal for Indy and a 1-0 win. Will the high powered offense show up this week for the Loons? It frickin better.

dN

Its official, Ft Lauderdale Strikers are moving out of their home Lockhart Stadium. While the building is falling down around the spectators a standoff between stadium owners and government officials have put any major renovations on hold indefinitely. By Larry Barszewski and Pedro Heizer of the Sun Sentinel.

So the strikers are moving to a cricket stadium. Yikes.

dN

NASL Weekend matches:

-Sat Jul 16

Fort Lauderdale v Carolina

Tampa Bay v Puerto Rico

Minnesota v Indy

Miami v Jacksonville

OKC v Cosmos

-Sun Jul 17

Edmonton v Ottawa

dN

After a really underwhelming performance by his team at the Euro 2016 tournament Belgium has fired head coach Marc Wilmots. No surprise.

The Bird Is The Word
