It's Day 313 of 2016.

I hope Susan Brownell Anthony is having a powerful day of resting in peace.

dN

3 days until USA v Mexico in Columbus - CONCACAF World Cup qualifying. 6:45pm CT on FS1.

dN

Jordan Morris is out of USMNT due to hamstring strain. Replaced on roster by Dave, auto mechanic from Rochester NY. Good locker room guy. And VERY FAST.

Also just found out that Alan Gordon has been added to the roster.

dN

Tim Howard is proving doubters wrong for Colorado. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

The USA will need the same from him.

dN

18 year old centerback Cameron Carter Vickers is very excited to be with Team USA. From the Tottenham website (his club team).

dN

The stories of Dos A Cero. As told by the people involved. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

dN

USA Roster

G

Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough

Ethan Horvath - Molde

Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

William Yarbrough - Leon

D

Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City

Steve Birnbaum - DC United

John Brooks - Hertha Berlin

Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham

Timmy Chandler - Eintracht Frankfurt

Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca

Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach

Michael Orozco - Tijuana

DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M

Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union

Michael Bradley - Toronto

Lynden Gooch - Sunderland

Julian Green - Bayern Munich

Jermaine Jones - Colorado Rapids

Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls

Christian Pulisic - Dortmund

Caleb Stanko - Vaduz

Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F

Jozy Altidore - Toronto

Alan Gordon - LA Galaxy

Aron Johannsson - Werder Bremen

Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

Bobby Wood - Hamburg

dN

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying schedule:

Matchday 1

-Fri Nov 11

USA v Mexico - 6:45pm CT on FS1

Honduras v Panama

Trinidad + Tobago v Costa Rica

Matchday 2

-Tue Nov 15

Costa Rica v USA - 8:00pm CT on beIN Sports

Honduras v Trinidad + Tobago

Panama v Mexico

dN

Didn't see this one coming:

Bayern Munich and RB Leipzig are tied on points (24) at the top of the Bundesliga. 10 of 34 rounds have been played.

In the 08-09 season Hoffenheim was the big surprise team and led the league at the mid-point of the season (Rd 17.) They eventually drifted and finished 7th. Their striker Vedad Ibisevic had 17 goals then but blew out his knee and missed the rest of the season.

dN

Montreal Impact is set to host the Leg 1 of the Semifinals at 66,000 seat Olympic Stadium, instead of their regular home, 21,000 seat Stade Saputo. Pretty crafty move.

dN

Brand new beautiful track from Last Lizard aka Dirty Beaches aka Alex Zhang Hungtai - This Is Not My Country

dN

I figured out how to prove there is a God! The Test: the day after Ted dies (& descends directly to hell) US Soccer institutes Pro/Rel.

dN

American Alfredo Morales has lost his head coach at Ingolstadt. Markus Kauczinski has been fired with an interim put in place.

dN

Duke Lacroix of Indy Eleven scored the NASL Goal Of The Year. [VIDEO]

But this goal by Jaime Chavez of Miami was even better.[VIDEO]

dN

NCAA Womens Soccer Tournament

-Sat Nov 12

Minnesota (#4) v North Carolina State (#13) - 7pm CT at Elizabeth Robbie Stadium in St Paul

64 teams enter the field.

Gophers are a #4 seed in 1 Quarter of the full 64 team bracket.

Minn starts with a home game against a #13 seed.

If they win that first game they play the winner of Pepperdine/California.

The Bird Is The Word
