STARTERS

Let's gab on Twitter: dunord

I started following Danny Dichio today. Can't wait to see what the big hero/villain has to say.

MLS

As I had hoped for yesterday, New York forward Macoumba Kandji has been named the leagues Player of the Week.

dN

Steve Davis of Soccernet gives us 10 things to know from Week 8's matches. Must read.

dN

Steven Goff of the Washington Post on his Soccer Insider blog spends "a few minutes with Ben Olsen".

dN

Jack Bell of the New York Times with an article on one of Chivas USA new unsung heroes - left fullback Mariano Trujillo.

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America looks at 3 big name Americans who have come back to play in MLS after European runs. The stories of Clint Mathis, Bobby Convey & Eddie Lewis.

dN

Andrew Rogers at Soccer 365 talks to young Dallas striker prodigy Peri Marosevic.

dN

Seattle has decided to bump up their seating capacity again, this time to 32,000. Wow.

dN

The Trinidad & Tobago Express has new rumors of midfielder T&T Chris Birchall signing with LA, this time with quotes from Brichall himself.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post on the Extra Times blog reports that MLS is expanding the ability of teams to sign players from their own youth academies. New York seems to be in position to make use of the new rules, as they have 2 prospects training with the senior team right now - Johnny Exantus and Dilly Duka.

-Lewis has more on Dilly Duka and the MLS academy system.

-Rutgers University also announced today that Duka will NOT be returning for his Junior year in the fall.

dN

The Oregonian with a very level-headed editorial on the Portland stadium proposal.

dN

Gareth Wheeler of the Toronto Sun says that MLS should consider a 2nd team in the Greater Toronto Area.

dN

I usually stay a long way away from these silly refereeing debates that so many fans looooooooooove to go on and on and about. But this time I have to stand up and say that Tim Weyland has got to go. The last 2 games I have seen him running have turned into stupid ugly messes. Yellow Cards all over the place leading to Red Cards and full-on ugly soccer. Yes I know its the players that are under control but they seriously have no respect for this referee and turn the whole thing into a joke. MLS & US Soccer please remove him from your rotation.

-Jose Romero of the Seattle Times reports that Weyland is currently "under review".

dN

From the "You've Got To Be Kidding Me" department - Soccer Training Info informs us that between the end of the AC Milan season and the opening of the transfer window in David Beckham is going to hold Crossing Clinics for fellow MLS players. Yes you read that right. As John at Soccer Training said to me, this might have made more sense had it been announced on April 1.

THE UNVEILING OF PHILADELPHIA UNION

Ya gotta love the team slogan of "Join Or Die"! Although it would have been a million times cooler if they had come up with it themselves, not just taken it from Ben Franklin.

dN

Many articles in the locals papers about the new team:

-Philadelphia Inquirer & Daily News

Payoff time for the soccer faithful

Philadelphia Union kicks off new MLS franchise

Payoff time for soccer faithful

Expanding the franchise

Photo gallery from the big ceremony

-Delaware County Times

Editorial: Soccer arrives kicking & screaming

Fans already on Union bandwagon

Union hopes to speak fans’ language

-Metro International

New kids on the block

USL

The Miami Herald with the story of former MLS All Star centerback Facundo Erpen, who is trying to jumpstart his career with Miami FC.

dN

Soccernet has a Q & A with Austin Aztex coach Adrian Heath.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

The USA U20 team will train for a week at the end of May as they prepare for the World Cup in late summer in Egypt. This is not the final squad. They will play two friendlies against Costa Rica. Here is the roster:

G:

Josh Lambo - FC Dallas

Brian Perk - UCLA

D:

Kyle Davies - FC Dallas

Jorge Flores - Chivas USA

Aaron Maund - Notre Dame

Ike Opara - Wake Forest

Anthony Wallace - FC Dallas

Sheanon Williams - no team

M:

Danny Cruz - Houston Dynamo

Dilly Duka - New York Red Bulls Academy

Jose Gonzalez - Atlante FC

Jared Jeffrey - Club Brugge

Gerson Mayen - Chivas USA

Alfredo Morales - Hertha Berlin

Brian Ownby - U Virginia

Brek Shea - FC Dallas

Guillermo Torres - Longview High School

F:

Fuad Ibrahim - Toronto FC

Peri Marosevic - FC Dallas

Tony Taylor - Jacksonville U

NOTE: Guillermo Torres is the younger brother of Pachuca and USA midfielder Jose Francisco Torres.

dN

PR Newswire with an article on Irv Smalls and his growing FC Harlem program. This guy seems really driven to make big things happen. How cool would it be one day for their to be an FC Harlem in MLS?!?! My friend Adam Spangler at This Is American Soccer has written about Smalls and FCH several times already.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Tim Howard has set a new record for Everton goalkeepers by holding the opposition scoreless in 16 games so far this season (3 still to go). Fantastic!

dN

Kamani Hill has signed a permanent deal with Guimaraes of Portugal (officially known as Vitoria Sport Clube or Vitoria de Guimaraes) where he has been on a try out for the past month, away from his now former club Wolfsburg in Germany.

-With two games left to play this season Guimaraes sits in the middle of the pack.

dN

Soccer 365 gives us a look at a young midfielder with both USA and Norway citizenship - where will he play his international games - Mikkel Diskerud of Stabaek.

dN

And our friend Greg Seltzer also of Soccer 365 talks with defender Charles Kazlauskas about his team in the Netherlands 2nd division TOP/Oss and their run down the stretch.

dN

Brent Latham at Yanks Abroad talks to Benny Feilhaber about his return to the field after a long time out due to knee surgery.

CONCACAF

Champions League

Final

2nd Leg Match (with 1st Leg score included):

-Tue May 12

Atlante v Cruz Azul (2-0)

MEXICO

All the stadiums will be open for normal business when the Liguilla kicks off on Wednesday night, except UAdG and Chiapas home games which will be closed to all fans still due to the Swine Flu scare.

ENGLAND

Simon Barnes of the Times calls Chelsea's loss at the hands of Barcelona a case of "suicide", not "murder".

dN

Matt Dickinson of the Times calls Didier Drogba the most important player at Chelsea, not Terry or Lampard.

dN

Patrick Barclay of the Times looks at Alex Ferguson's rotation of players at Manchester United and labels it masterful.

EUROPE

The Czech Republic has named Frantisek Straka as their new national team coach.

dN

The Reuters Soccer Blog jumps ahead to next season to examine Schalke and their next coach Felix Magath.

dN

The National of UAE talks to Inter Milan CEO Ernesto Paolillo about the clubs near and distant future - youth.

-Paolillo also says the club assumes coach Jose Mourinho will be back next season.

dN

Another round of games is upon us with midweek matches and we are hardly any closer to crowning a champion. But we do know that Dortmund was knocked out of contention today.

dN

Race for the German Bundesliga 1 title:

63 (+30) Wolfsburg (2 games left to play) - Last: W 3-0 v Dortmund - Next: Sat May 16 at Hannover

63 (+28) Bayern Munich (2 games left to play) - Last: W 3-0 v Bayer Leverkusen - Next: Sat May 16 at Hoffenheim

62 Hertha Berlin (2 games left to play) - Last: W 1-2 at Koln - Next: Sat May 16 v Schalke

58 Stuttgart (3 games left to play) - Next: Wed May 13 at Schalke

OUT - 55 (+17) Dortmund (2 games left to play) - Last: L 3-0 at Wolfsburg - Next: Sat May 16 v Arminia Bielefeld

55 (+/-0) Hamburg (3 games left to play) -Next: Wed May 13 v Bochum

dN

Race for the French Ligue 1 title:

68 (+27) Marseille (4 games left to play) - Next: Wed May 13 at Nice

68 (+26) Bordeaux (4 games left to play) - Next: Wed May 13 at Valenciennes

64 Lyon (3 games left to play) - Last: W 3-1 v Nantes - Next: Sun May 17 at Marseille

60 Paris St Germain (4 games left to play) - Next: Wed May 13 at Le Mans

dN

Race for the French Ligue 1 title:

80 Celtic (2 games left to play) - Next: Sun May 17 at Hibernian

79 Rangers (3 games left to play) - Last: W 1-0 v Celtic - Next: Wed May 13 at Hibernian

SOUTH AMERICA

Tim Vickery of Sports Illustrated writes about the big comeback of Il Fenomeno - Ronaldo.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Round of 16 1st Leg Matches:

-Thu May 14

Defensor SC (Para) v CA Boca Juniors (Arg)

2nd Leg Matches (with 1st Leg scores included):

-Tue May 12

Caracas v Cuenca (1-2)

Sport Recife v Palmeiras (0-1)

-Wed May 13

Gremio v Universidad San Martin (3-1)

-Thu May 14

Cruzeiro v Universidad de Chile (2-1)

Libertad v Estudiantes (0-3)

-Thu May 21

Boca Juniors v Defensor (-)

AFRICA

The Daily Trust with an article on the Nigerian Super Eagles who are suffering badly from "insider trading" and nepotism. It needs to be fixed or they won't even make it to the World Cup.

WORLD CUP SOUTH AFRICA 2010

From Kick Off in South Africa: "Unconfirmed reports from the US have it that American R&B singer/songwriter/producer Akon has been hired to produce the 2010 World Cup theme song."
