It's Day 291 of 2017.

Front and center in Columbus:

Today's @DispatchAlerts front page. "A kick in the gut": #CrewSC pic.twitter.com/6bkeKYT8hJ

— Andrew Erickson (@AEricksonCD) October 18, 2017

The latest from the Dispatch on a potential departure. By Andrew Erickson of the Columbus Dispatch.

The latest from potential new home Austin. By Kevin Lyttle for the Austin Statesman.

dN

Anyone interested in a little Golden Gopher soccer Friday night?

Fri Oct 20 at 6pm CT

Supposed to be 75 degrees and sunny

You interested?

5 bucks.

Lets do it!

dN

A vision for the future of soccer in America, by an actual visionary. By Peter Wilt for Midfield Press.

dN

US Soccer files its legal response to the lawsuit filed against them by the NASL. By Paul Kennedy for Soccer America.

dN

The new NASL team in San Diego has a name - 1904 FC.

dN

The return of the 2 Milans. From mediocrity Inter and Milan strive for significance again. By Rory Smith for the New York Times.

dN

A brand new album, the 2nd this year, by the great Obnox! Murder Radio is available now.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Last game of the season coming up on Sunday in San Jose at Avaya stadium.

Minnesota United is dangerously close to breaking an ignominious record; Most goals allowed in a season.

The current record is 69.

MNUFC has allowed 67, with 1 game left to play.

The next opponent San Jose is in control of their playoff dreams. Win against Minn and advance. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

MU is putting the push on for Abu Danladi to be named MLS Rookie Of The Year. He is a very good candidate.

Its an outdated award because more and more young players are coming in as Homegrown or on loan and only draftees are eligible.

Want to see this award scrapped in exchange for Young Player Of The Year.

But since the award is what it is I would have to vote for Julian Gressel of Atlanta, who has been fantastic all season long. Danladi is #2 on my ballot.

Schedule:

Sun Oct 22

San Jose Earthquakes v Minnesota

dN

Majority: du Nord Music Mix Vol 143 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Sebastian Giovinco on why he's in Toronto and what it means to him. In his own words, for the Players Tribune.

Dallas has been the league leader in youth development, and they want to further that cause. By Sam Stejskal for MLS.

This year though has been a story of great heights to new lows for Dallas - what is going wrong? by Arch Bell for ESPNFC.

Bill Hamid has announced that he will not sign a new contract with DC United for next season. What is next? By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

Hamid says we will all know where he is headed very soon.

dN

Adrianna Franch of Portland Thorns named NWSL Goalkeeper Of The Year

dN

David Letterman as he is today. By Geoff Edgers for the Washington Post.

dN

US SOCCER

@ussoccer would probably intentionally contract the flesh eating bacteria before it would hire a Sam Allardyce as USMNT coach.

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) October 18, 2017

A bevy of US Soccer topics: Landon Donovan for USSF pres? Why not Kyle Martino? Tab Ramos for USMNT interim? And a big $ surplus. By Grant Wahl for Sports Illustrated.

Another run at a possible USMNT roster for the November friendly at Portugal. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Christian Pulisic: After 3 rounds of UEFA Champions League group stage games Dortmund only has 1 point. Their chances of advancing past Real Madrid or Tottenham are slim.

Pulisic went 90 minutes yesterday but they could only manage a tie at APOEL.

dN

LIGA MX

Tonight: America v Guadalajara - its 2nd place hosting 2nd to last place. 9:00pm CT on Univision Deportes.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE - GROUP STAGE

Yesterday's match 3 big results:

Real Madrid and Tottenham tied 1-1 in Madrid. Huge for the London team.

Liverpool stomped Maribor 0-7 in Slovenia.

Manchester City won over Napoli to remain perfect and pull away at the top.

Today's important games:

Benfica v Man United

Bayern v Celtic

Chelsea v Roma

Juventus v Sporting CP

dN

Just checking: The Chelsea player Zappacosta is Frank Zappa riding on the shoulders of Gal Costa, right?

The Bird Is The Word
