STARTERS

Kenny Cooper is possibly being loaned out by 1860 to English team Plymouth Argyle. PA, who play in the Championship League, are coached by none other than former New England Revolution assistant Paul Mariner. I really don't understand this at all.

dN

Adrian Mutu got busted again. The Fiorentina striker was caught using cocaine in 2004 while with Chelsea, and now has again tested positive for stimulants. Cocaine was not named as the drug this time. His punishment could be severe.

COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

With the current deal set to expire at the end of the day on Sun Jan 31, both sides (League owners and Players union) have been around the conference table non-stop and a deal is fully expected to be reached without a grenade going off. Let's hope there are no snakes thrown in to the room at the last minute.

THOUGHT OF THE DAY

It's being reported today that between now the time of the World Cup the Mexican national team will play 6 friendlies in the USA against the following opponents: Bolivia, New Zealand, Iceland, Ecuador, & Senegal.

Now, while it bothers me that Mexico's team is more popular in my country than the USA's team, I am hoping that our team plays some tougher opponents than this.

In the past few years we have seen the USA take a step up in quality for friendlies.

And I think we will see our team play at least 2 friendlies in the weeks leading up to the World Cup. Let's hope the competition is quality.

What our team really could use though is a company like SUM to market the shit out of them. Oh, wait, they already work with them. Never mind.

I guess Mexico really are the most popular soccer team in the United States.

MLS NEWS

Jack Bell of the New York Times with an article on Red Bulls head coach Hans Backe.

dN

Jose Romero of the Seattle Times on the idea of Sounders long range planning.

dN

Phil Collin of the LA Daily News on the start of Galaxy spring training. The team needs to start better than last season.

dN

The San Jose Earthquakes signed forward Chris Wondolowski to a contract extension.

dN

The Philadelphia local ABC affiliate has announced a deal to broadcast Union home games. Wow. This is no hard to find cable outlet were are talking about here. This is over the air network stuff. Again, Wow.

MLS STADIUM & FACILITY BUILDING

The Houston Chronicle is reporting that with negotiations on a downtown stadium seemingly stalled, the Dynamo are rolling out Plan B - a suburban stadium.

dN

Elliot Almond of the San Jose Mercury News reports on a new training facility for the Earthquakes. Ground will be broken today for construction.

dN

The South Delta Leader reports that the suburb of Delta has pulled out of a deal to host the Vancouver Whitecaps training center.

USA U20 TEAM AT COPA CHIVAS

The USA is out of the tournament after coming in last place in their Group.

dN

This was pretty bad for the USA U20 team, finishing with 0 wins, 3 losses and 2 ties, from 3 goals scored and 7 allowed.

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

USA 1-3 Pachuca

USA 1-1 Brazil

USA 0-1 UANL Tigres

USA 1-1 Atlas

USA 0-1 Saprissa

dN

Group B (All 5 games played)

13 Atlas (+8 GD)

10 Saprissa (+2 GD)

7 UANL Tigres (-1 GD)

4 Brazil (-1 GD)

4 Pachuca (-4 GD)

2 USA (-3 GD)

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

The Bolton News on the arrival of Stuart Holden.

dN

Landon Donovan scored his first goal in England yesterday as Everton beat Sunderland 2-0. He also had a near goal cleared off the goal line by a defender.

The Liverpool Daily Post talks to Everton coach David Moyes about his teams heavy February schedule, and the impact of Landon Donovan.

-The Everton website has words from:

-David Moyes

-Tim Howard

-Landon Donovan

ENGLAND

The most expensive purchase in EPL history is now officially gone, and can be considered a huge flop - Robinho has been sent on loan to Santos, his old club in Brazil.

SPAIN

COPA DEL REY - Quarterfinals

2nd Leg

-Wed Jan 27

Sevilla 0-1 Deportivo La Coruna - Sev advance 3-1 on aggregate.

Osasuna 0-3 Racing Santander -RS advance 5-1 on aggregate.

-Thu Jan 28

Getafe 0-1 Mallorca - series ends tied 2-2, so Getafe advance on the away goal tie breaker 2-1.

Celta Vigo 0-1 Atletico Madrid - AM advance 2-1 on aggregate.

And the Semifinalists are: Sevilla, Racing Santander, Getafe & Atletico Madrid.

GERMANY

The New York Times tells us about the exciting young German star-in-the-making Mesut Ozil.

dN

Eintracht Frankfurt has bought Turkish international midfielder Halil Altintop from Schalke.

ITALY

The Coppa Italia Semifinals are now all set.

COPPA ITALIA

Quarterfinals - Matches & Scores:

-Thu Jan 28

Inter 2-1 Juvenus

Semifinals:

1st Leg

-Tue Feb 2

Fiorentina v Inter

Roma v Udinese

-Tue Feb 9

Inter v Fiorentina

Udinese v Roma

COPA LIBERTADORES

The Preliminary (Llave) Round is underway with 12 teams play home and away for the final 6 spots (Ganador) in the 8 groups.

dN

Llave Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Jan 26

Depotivo Tachira (Venezuela) 1-0 Libertad (Paraguay) - Ganador 1 - DT goal by Armando Maita.

Colon (Argentina) 3-2 Universidad Catolica (Chile) - Ganador 3 - Col goals by Federico Nieto, Esteban Fuertes & Facundo Bertoglio. UC goals both by Juan Morales.

-Wed Jan 27

Juan Aurich (Peru) 2-0 Estudiantes Tecos (Mexico) - Ganador 2 - JA goals both by Luis Tejada.

Real Potosi (Bolivia) 1-1 Cruzeiro (Brazil) - Ganador 4 - RP goal by Roberta Correa. Cru goal by Wellington Paulista.

Newell's Old Boys (Argentina) 0-0 Emelec (Ecudador) - Ganador 5

-Thu Jan 28

Junior (Colombia) v Racing Club (Uruguay) - Ganador 6

2nd Leg

-Tue Feb 2

Libertad v Tachira (0-1) - Ganador 1

-Wed Feb 3

Estudiantes Tecos v Juan Aurich (0-2) - Ganador 2

Cruzeiro v Real Potosi (1-1) - Ganador 4

-Thu Feb 4

Racing Club v Junior (-) - Ganador 6

-Tue Feb 09

Universidad Catolica v Colon (2-3) - Ganador 3

-Wed Feb 10

Emelec v Newell's Old Boys (0-0) - Ganador 5

dN

The Group Stage begins on Tue Feb 9.
