-No Landon Donovan on the squad for Team USA's Oct 8 World Cup Qualifier v Costa Rica at the infamous Saprissa Stadium in San Jose, CR. Here is the full team listing (there could be an addition to this team since Beasley tweaked a hamstring playing for PSV last weekend):

G: Kevin Hartman, Tim Howard

D: Chris Albright, Wade Barrett, Carlos Bocanegra, Danny Califf, Eddie Lewis, Oguchi Onyewu, Eddie Pope, Jonathan Spector

M: DaMarcus Beasley, Ricardo Clark, Bobby Convey, Kyle Martino, Pablo Mastroeni

F: Brian Ching, Santino Quaranta, Taylor Twellman

Word is that some additions will be made to the squad for next weeks match against Panama.

-Photos from the Team USA Monday practice session.

-Last weekends MLS attendance:

Columbus v Chivas 20,548

Metro v DC 27,670

New Eng v San Jose 14,316

KC v Chicago 7,207

Colorado v Salt Lake 14,063

LA v Dallas 25,557

As you can see, the big disappointments are in New England where they have a very exciting team at the top of the East standings playing the very exciting team at the top of the West standings San Jose - the place should have been packed and rowdy! But no. And its really sad to see KC going down the drain. Only 7000 at a game that they HAD to win, and against their rival from Chicago. Bummer dudes (and I was just starting to warm up to those KC people too). The other 4 matches all had great attendance! (Yes I am saying that 14000 in Denver is a great number.)

-With Santino Quaranta joining the USA in Costa Rica this weekend, DC United might debut their new Argentinean striker Lucio Filomeno. His work visa has come thru, and he is over his knee injury. Does Kaspar really have the magic touch in finding these guys?

-San Jose Keeper Pat Onstad with a Q&A after their big win in Boston last Saturday.

-God damn Chelsea are good. Do they have a weakness? Let me know what you think. So are Juventus. Patrick Viera has really helped them. And here I always thought he was a bit overrated. Ask the Arse what they think of that.

-One word: Dedi!

-The 40 teams left in the UEFA Cup were drawn into 8 groups for the round robin stage that begins on Oct 20th. My pick to win it all is Hertha Berlin.

-We now know that Jack Bell of the New York Times reads this fine piece of work I call Du Nord. Last week I demanded to know what Frank Yallop is up to these days, apart from the rigorous task driving his kids to school everyday. Frank himself was too busy using Google Maps to find quicker home-to-school routes to check in with me directly, so Bell, sensing a story in the making, took the preemptive stance on the issue, picked up the phone, and asked Yallop for comment himself. Luckily for all of us, FY obliged. In a personal note to Jack Bell: feel free to steal my ideas any time you want. That's why they pay you the big bucks - to steal from the best! I find it all very flattering.

-This past weekends results from Mexico: (The top teams are starting to sort themselves out after 11 rounds, especially with Club America not losing for the 28th straight week.)

Toluca 0-1 Chiapas

Cruz Azul 0-0 Guadalajara

Monterrey 2-2 Santos

Morelia 0-2 Tigres

Veracruz 2-3 Necaxa

America 3-1 San Luis

Atlas 1-0 Atlante

Tecos 3-1 Pumas

Pachuca 2-1 Dorados

The MFL single table:

29 America

23 Cruz Azul

21 Monterrey

21 Necaxa

21 Pachuca

17 Toluca

17 Tigres

15 Santos

14 Guadalajara

13 Pumas

12 Chiapas

11 Morelia

11 Tecos

11 Veracruz

10 Atlas

9 San Luis

8 Atlante

8 Dorados

-Former one-year LA Galaxy star Andy Herzog is back in the soccer news today. He has joined Austria's national team as a coach. AND... he has made the grand statement that Austria are going to beat England in Manchester this weekend. Alright Andres!! Stick that foot right into that mouth immediately! But I still like it.

-Soccer America's College Top 25 ranking.

-Hercy Gomez from Los Angeles has been named MLS Player Of The Week.

-Minnesota Thunder 2006 season tickets go on sale today, with deals galore for early purchasers.

-The Houston Chronicle's Week In Review

-Who from the current USA U17 team has the goods to go pro. Andrea Canales writes for ESPNSoccernet: Assessing the future pros

-Yanks Abroad says there is no good news for Cory Gibbs and his knee.
