It's Day 89 of 2016.

A note posted in the comments section here yesterday about the current state of the USMNT: " I watch with all the enthusiasm of entering a flaming porta-potty. -Marc"

dN

World Cup qualifying results:

-Tue Mar 29

USA v Guatemala - 6:00pm CT at Mapfre Stadium in Columbus OH on ESPN2.

You can't make this up: Carlos Ruiz has cleared up his legal issues and will be allowed into the USA after all. He caught a flight this morning. Chaos with the smile of the Devil is on the way.

Ahhhhh, Jimmy Conrad, the Clown Prince of American Soccer is NOT telling jokes in his diatribe about the USMNT coach. [VIDEO] Jimmy is also a lovely man.

I don't believe its going to happen, but...

If the USMNT loses tonight AND Trinidad + Tobago wins, then T+T and Guatemala don't have to win another game to eliminate the USA! Believe it hotrod. Doomsday device type stuff by Matthew Doyle of MLSSoccer.

In watching Jurgen Klinsmann's press conference on Monday morning I was struck by one thing: In all the time he has been USA head coach his optimism has never waned. But yesterday I saw a subdued man. A weary man. A scared man. The famous Grinsi only came out once, and it was briefly, when talking about past successes in Columbus OH.

Six important cogs from the USA 2002 World Cup team give their opinions on the current state of the national team. Claudio Reyna, Tony Sanneh, Cobi Jones, John O'Brien, Brian McBride, and Carlos Llamosa. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

Will Columbus add a soothing balm to the USMNT wounds tonight? It has in the past. by Andrew Keh of the New York Times.

Tonight is a genuine MUST-WIN game for the USMNT. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

How did we get to this? A game against Guatemala with everything on the line. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

Vultures are circling in the sky over the USA coach. By Michael Arace of the Columbus Dispatch.

dN

3 USMNT matches announced:

Last game of this round of World Cup qualifying on Tue Sep 6 v Trinidad + Tobago at EverBank Field in Jacksonville.

Two friendlies before Copa America - Wed May 25 v Ecuador at Toyota Stadium in Frisco and Sat May 28 v Bolivia at Children's Mercy Park in Kansas City.

dN

The rest of CONCACAF qualifying today:

-Mar 29

Group A

Mexico v Canada

Honduras v El Salvador

Group B

Costa Rica v Jamaica

Haiti v Panama

Group C

Trinidad + Tobago v St Vincent +the Grenadines

dN

And also tonight with a berth in the Olympics on the line:

2nd Leg

-Tue Mar 29

USA U23 v Colombia U23 (tied 1-1 from 1st Leg) - 8:30pm CT at Toyota Stadium in Frisco TX on ESPN2.

Away goals is the tie breaker.

Some background on this important game for the USA men's Olympic team. From US Soccer.

dN

A fantastic music mix of Jamaican wonders (dub roots reggae) from the great visual artist Coop! For Fleamarket Funk.

dN

Today's feature story is on Minnesota United's Justin Davis. By Andy Greder of the St Paul Pioneer Press. (Part of a weeklong series.)

Monday: Sammy Ndjock

dN

Team-by-team NASL season preview. By Jake Nutting of Empire of Soccer.

dN

Individual team previews by Ryan Tolmich of SBISoccer:

Tampa Bay Rowdies

Ottawa Fury

Indy Eleven

Fort Lauderdale Strikers

Rayo OKC

dN

No surprise that Michael Barrios of Dallas was named MLS Player Of The Week.

dN

Even when the Colorado Rapids are trying hard to improve their roster they can't catch a break: Kevin Doyle will be out a month after suffering a really nasty laceration to his shin (don't look if you are squeamish) while playing for Ireland.

dN

DC has signed Andrea Mancini, the son of Inter Milan head coach Roberto Mancini. Both teams are owned by Erick Thohir.

dN

The First Round matches for the 2016 US Open Cup will be announced on April 6.

USL teams enter in the Second Round

NASL teams enter in the Third Round

MLS teams enter in the Fourth Round

The Bird Is The Word
