STARTERS

An important message from the creators of the great soccer movie Pelada:

Add Pelada to your Netflix Queue

Help us make the movie available on Netflix by saving Pelada to your queue.

Simply "save" Pelada to your queue, even if you've already seen the film. It only takes 30 seconds, and will help the film become available to more and more viewers. Do it now! Stop reading this, go save it, then come back and read more of this.

TEAM USA

Its Friendly Match Week!

dN

63,000 tickets have been sold for USA v Argentina on Sat night in East Rutherford. I hope to meet each and everyone of you.

dN

The USA is training in Cary NC for 2 games ahead.

dN

Tim Vickery of Sports Illustrated examines the Argentina squad for us.

dN

Steve Davis of the Daily Soccer Fix ponders the situation of players with dual-citizenship who are much more one country than the other, and should the USA be recruiting them for the national team - ie David Yelldell and Timothy Chandler.

-My feeling is that every country in the world does it, and the USA would be fools not to take advantage.

-Davis has other notes from training camp too.

dN

The team's official blog.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 26

USA v Argentina

Venue: New Meadowlands Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

-Tue Mar 29

USA v Paraguay

Venue: LP Field - Nashville TN

dN

USA roster

G:

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton

Tim Howard - Everton

David Yelldell - Duisburg

D:

Carlos Bocanegra - St Etienne

Jonathan Bornstein - UANL Tigres

Timothy Chandler - Nurnberg

Jay DeMerit - Vancouver Whitecaps

Eric Lichaj - Leeds

Oguchi Onyewu - Twente

Tim Ream - Red Bull New York

Jonathan Spector - West Ham

M:

Michael Bradley - Aston Villa

Clint Dempsey - Fulham

Mikkel Diskeruud - Stabaek

Landon Donovan - LA Galaxy

Mo Edu - Rangers

Benny Feilhaber - AGF

Jermaine Jones - Blackburn

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht

F:

Juan Agudelo - Red Bull New York

Jozy Altidore - Bursaspor

Edson Buddle - Ingolstadt

FACT OF THE DAY

In addition to MLS playing a full round of games this weekend, so are the top leagues in Argentina and Brazil. But not in Mex, as they sometimes have in the past.

THATS WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR

Just in time to look bitch'.

Bumpy Pitch Raglan Crew

WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?

Matt Kietyka of Metro Vancouver reports that in the ticket exchange deal between Portland, Seatlle & Vancouver each team is to get 500 tix to games against each other for traveling fans, and they would be sold at face value. In Vancouver those 500 tickets have gone to a travel agency who is selling them mainly as part of a package, and with a 35% markup. Blood is boiling already.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

Simon Evans of Reuters does not think that the backlash against David Beckham is fair.

-While Evans isn't wrong, like everyone else he bends the truth a little to make his points. MLS teams did not start preseason in mid-February, they all started by around Jan 25. Most peoples problem with Beckham this offseason is that didn't he show up for LA Galaxy training on day 1. He was not there until Feb 24, one month later than everyone else. Was training at Tottenham better for him than training with his teammates in Carson CA? That is what pisses people off. Me included.

Nigel Reed of the CBC on three newcomers who each scored a pair of goals in week 1.

CHICAGO FIRE

The Fire sent forward Calen Carr to Houston in exchange for forward Dominic Oduro.

Chicago acquired Colombian centerback Yamith Cuesta from Chivas USA today, in exchange for a future draft pick.

CD CHIVAS USA

Scott French of ESPN with lots of team notes - topics include: centerbacks, forward Victor Estupinan, new signing Seth Owusu, loan deals and more.

COLUMBUS CREW

Shawn Mitchell of the Dispatch looks at the case of Robbie Rogers and why he did not start in game 1. He came of the bench to dramatic effect, so what happens now. Rogers relationship with head coach Robert Warczycha has always been strained. But who's relationship with the coach isn't. This is the guy who hated Guillermo Barros Schelotto.

-On the other hand, Rogers is a guy that people say has a ton of skill, but we don't see it on the field very often. And definitely not often enough for his coach who sees him every day in practice.

Mitchell always has a quality look back at the Crew's previous match.

-And some more team notes today.

FC DALLAS

The team posted a rapid fire Q & A with head coach Schellas Hyndman on their website today.

Exhibition: Rio Grande Plate

-Wed Mar 23

FC Dallas v UANL Tigres(Mexico)

DC UNITED

The team will play Everton in a friendly on Sat July 23 at RFK Stadium.

Craig Stouffer of the Examiner talks to Josh Wolff about his great first game in (and out of) a DC shirt.

The Washington Post has some team notes.

HOUSTON DYNAMO

The Dynamo sent forward Dominic Oduro to Chicago in exchange for forward Calen Carr.

HD had been planning on a friendly against Stuart Holden & Bolton next summer, but with Holden's bad knee injury that game is most likely off.

SPORTING KANSAS CITY SC

The team reports that Chad Ochocinco warmed up for his tryout in KC with some training in Florida with members of the Ft Lauderdale Strikers - including our friend goalkeeper Nic Platter.

NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION

Frank Dell'Apa of the Boston Globe says the Revs feel good about their tie in LA last weekend.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

The Sounders are giving speedy forward Gregory Richardson a try out. He has been with Joe Public, Colorado Rapids and Carolina RailHawks over the past 3 seasons.

TORONTO FC

TSN says the Reds plan to put on a much better show at home this weekend then they did in Vancouver.

MLS RESERVE LEAGUE

Matches & Scores:

-Sun Mar 20

DC United 3-2 Columbus Crew - DCU goals by Rodrigo Brasesco, Blake Brettschneider & Branko Boskovic. CC goals by Bernardo Anor & Cole Grossman.

-Tue Mar 22

San Jose Earthquakes 2-1 Vancouver Whitecaps - SJE goals by VW(own goal) & Matt Luzunaris. VW goal by Bedri Gashi.

-Sat Mar 26

New England Revolution v DC United

Columbus Crew v New York Red Bulls

-Tue Mar 29

Real Salt Lake v FC Dallas

-Sun Apr 3

San Jose Earthquakes v Seattle Sounders

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

MLS, SUM and US Soccer signed a new long term deal with Anheuser-Busch. No details were given on length or value of the deal. I expect that will all be leaked in the next few days. And if its like any of the other recent renewals it will be for a significant increase in the amount of money A-B will pay to have their brands featured.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Soccer America reports that American Joe Enochs has been named the interim head coach at the club where he played for many seasons Osnabruck in the 2.Bundesliga.

dN

Greg Seltzer of MLSsoccer.com reports that Benny Feilhaber is playing strong and helping lead his team AGF to a commanding 1st place in Denmark's 2nd division.

CONCACAF

FRIENDLY

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 24

Cuba v El Salvador

-Fri Mar 25

Panama v Bolivia

S Korea v Honduras

Jamaica v Venezuela

-Sat Mar 26

USA v Argentina

Mexico v Paraguay

St Kitts & Nevis v Grenada

Costa Rica v China

-Sun Mar 27

Belize v Cayman Islands

El Salvador v Jamaica

-Mon Mar 28

Guatemala v Bolivia

-Tue Mar 29

Costa Rica v Argentina

USA v Paraguay

Mexico v Venezuela

Belarus v Canada

Cuba v Panama

China v Honduras

SPAIN

The players "union" in Spain has announced that they intend to strike the weekend of Apr 2 & 3 due to a disagreement over TV fees.

dN

Gabriele Marcotti of the Wall Street Journal on Real Madrid manager Jose Mourinho - when and where will he coach next?

Cesc Fabregas, Carles Puyol and Pedro will all miss out on Spain's Euro qualifier next Tuesday due to injuries.

FRANCE

Phil Minshull of the BBC writes about again restarting their national team after a World Cup debacle.

-They did it after the terrible 2002 tournament, why not after the mess of 2010.

GERMANY

Another Bundesliga coach was fired yesterday. This time it was Ricardo Clark's coach at Eintracht Frankfurt Michael Skibbe.

-He has been replaced by veteran manager Christoph Daum.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of Sports Illustrated tell us about 10 talented German national team prospects under the age of 22.

EUROPE

The AFP reports that Zenit in Russia is taking a stand against a racist fan. Great to hear about. Russia has a terrible track record on racism against football players, and is renowned for doing nothing about it.

dN

Galatasaray has fired their head coach Romanian legend Gheorghe Hagi. He was only hired back in November.

UEFA EURO 2012

QUALIFYING

MAtches & Scores:

-Fri Mar 25

Hungary v Netherlands

Slovenia v Italy

Luxembourg v France

Serbia v N Ireland

-Sat Mar 26

Wales v England

Germany v Kazakhstan

Norway v Denmark

Bulgaria v Switzerland

Armenia v Russia

Bosnia-Herzegovina v Romania

Ireland v Macedonia

Albania v Belarus

Andorra v Slovakia

Cyprus v Iceland

Malta v Greece

Georgia v Croatia

Israel v Latvia

-Tue Mar 29

Lithuania v Spain

Netherlands v Hungary

Czech Republic v Liechtenstein

Sweden v Moldova

N Ireland v Slovenia

Turkey v Austria

Belgium v Azerbaijan

Romania v Luxembourg

Israel v Georgia

Estonia v Serbia

BRAZIL

Tim Vickery of the BBC on the sad decent of Adriano who was cut by Roma last month, and currently has no prospect with another team.

ARGENTINA

The AP talks to Boca Juniors star Martin Palermo who sees the team at the lowest point in his 14 years with the club.

COPA LIBERTADORES

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 22

Libertad 2-2 Once Caldas - Lib goals both by Nicolas Pavlovich. OC goals both by Wason Renteria.

Caracas 0-2 Univ Catolica - UC goals by Jose Villanueva & Lucas Pratto.

San Luis 3-1 Univ St Martin - SL goals by Juan Medina & Michael Arroyo. USM goal by Ronald Quinteros.

-Wed Mar 23

Godoy Cruz v Independiente

Fluminense v America

-Thu Mar 24

Oriente Petrolero v Leon de Huanuco

Velez Sarsfield v Union Espanola

dN

Standings:

Group 1

ADV-11 Libertad (Paraguay) (+6 gd) (5 gp)

6 Univ San Martin (Peru) (-2 gd) (5 gp)

5 San Luis (Mexico) (-1 gd) (5 gp)

4 Once Caldas (Colombia) (-3 gd) (5 gp)

Group 2

ADV-12 Junior (Colombia) (+4 gd) (4 gp)

7 Gremio (Brazil) (+4 gd) (4 gp)

4 Leon de Huanuco (Peru) (-2 gd) (4 gp)

OUT-0 Oriente Petrolero (Bolivia) (-6 gd) (4 gp)

Group 3

7 Argentinos Juniors (Argentina) (+2 gd) (4 gp)

6 America (Mexico) (+1 gd) (3 gp)

4 Nacional (Uruguay) (-2 gd) (4 gp)

2 Fluminense (Brazil) (-1 gd) (3 gp)

Group 4

7 Univ Catolica (Chile) (+1 gd) (4 gp)

6 Caracas (Venezuela) (-1 gd) (4 gp)

4 Union Espanola (Chile) (-1 gd) (3 gp)

3 Velez Sarsfield (Argentina) (+1 gd) (3 gp)

Group 5

5 Cerro Porteno (Paraguay) (+3 gd) (3 gp)

6 Colo-Colo (Chile) (0 gd) (3 gp)

2 Santos (Brazil) (-1 gd) (3 gp)

2 Depor Tachira (Venezuela) (-2 gd) (3 gp)

Group 6

7 Internacional (Brazil) (+7 gd) (3 gp)

7 Emelec (Ecuador) (+1 gd) (4 gp)

6 Chiapas Jaguares (-2 gd) (4 gp)

0 Jorge Wilstermann (Bolivia) (-6 gd) (3 gp)

Group 7

10 Cruzeiro (Brazil) (+14 gd) (4 gp)

9 Estudiantes (Argentina) (+1 gd) (4 gp)

4 Depor Tolima (Colombia) (-5 gd) (4 gp)

OUT-0 Guarani (Paraguay) (-10 gd) (4 gp)

Group 8

6 Liga Quito (Ecuador) (+6 gd) (4 gp)

6 Gody Cruz (Argentina) (+1 gd) (3 gp)

6 Penarol (Uruguay) (-5 gd) (4 gp)

3 Independiente (Argentina) (-2 gd) (3 gp)

AFRICA CUP OF NATIONS

QUALIFYING

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Mar 26

Burkina Faso v Namibia

South Africa v Egypt

Mali v Zimbabwe

Nigeria v Ethiopia

Senegal v Cameroon

Rwanda v Burundi

Cote d'Ivoire v Benin

Kenya v Angola

Guinea-Bissau v Uganda

Chad v Botswana

Malawi v Togo

-Sun Mar 27

Cape Verde Islands v Liberia

Madagascar v Guinea

Libya v Comoros

Mozambique v Zambia

Tanzania v Central African Republic

Algeria v Morocco

Congo DR v Mauritius

Niger v Sierra Leone

Congo v Ghana

Sudan v Swaziland

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Mar 23

Chinese Taipei v Turkmenistan

Pakistan v India

Maldives v Kyrgyzstan

Bhutan v Afghanistan

Palestine v Philippines

Myanmar v Bangladesh

Cambodia v Tajikistan

-Thu Mar 24

Cuba v El Salvador

-Fri Mar 25

Spain v Czech Republic

Lithuania v Poland

Montenegro v Uzbekistan

Estonia v Uruguay

Panama v Bolivia

Turkmenistan v India

Pakistan v Chinese Taipei

Maldives v Tajikistan

S Korea v Honduras

Afghanistan v Bhutan

Bangladesh v Philippines

Myanmar v Palestine

China v New Zealand

Jamaica v Venezuela

Austria v Belgium

Cambodia v Kyrgyzstan

-Sat Mar 26

Portugal v Chile

USA v Argentina

Mexico v Paraguay

Colombia v Ecuador

Costa Rica v China

Jordan v Kuwait

N Korea v Iraq

St. Kitts & Nevis v Grenada

-Sun Mar 27

Brazil v Scotland

Belize v Cayman Islands

El Salvador v Jamaica

-Mon Mar 28

Guatemala v Bolivia

-Tue Mar 29

Germany v Australia

Portugal v Finland

Ukraine v Italy

England v Ghana

Costa Rica v Argentina

France v Croatia

USA v Paraguay

Mexico v Venezuela

Greece v Poland

Ireland v Uruguay

Oman v Tunisia

Belarus v Canada

Cuba v Panama

Slovakia v Denmark

Colombia v Chile

Equatorial Guinea v Gambia

Peru v Ecuador

Gabon v Cameroon

China v Honduras

Nigeria v Kenya

Cyprus v Bulgaria

Jordan v N Korea

Qatar v Russia

Kuwait v Iraq

Morocco v Botswana
