STARTERS

See the USA 2010 World Cup rosterr published here at du Nord earlier today. Lots more on Team USA below.

dN

It's official: Pellegrini out at Real Madrid, and Mourinho in!

dN

USL has announced that the island nation of Antigua (out past Puerto Rico) will join First Division next year - Welcome Barracuda FC (seriously). And who exactly is going to pay for those airplane tickets?

dN

Lots of good games going on around North America tonight as a couple MLS teams as playing international friendlies, 2 Canadian teams are facing off in their national title tournament, and there is a US Open Cup game on the docket.

TWITTER

Get with our Sloop Twitter B: @dunord

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

US Soccer gives us the official 23 player USA World Cup 2010 roster, in detail.

-Quotes on the roster from coach and players.

dN

Wayne Drehs of ESPN Soccernet tell us how some guys found out that they made the team.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Tue May 25

USA 2-4 Czech Republic - USA goals by Maurice Edu & Herculez Gomez. CR goals by Tomas Sivok, Jan Polak, Martin Fenin & Tomas Necid.

Venue: Rentschler Field - East Hartford CT

Attendance: 36,218

Match report from US Soccer.

Match report from the Hartford Courant.

Post game analysis by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Player ratings by Mahoney.

Match report by Jeff Carlisle of Soccernet.

Player ratings by Carlisle.

Player ratings by Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated

Match report by Ives Galarcep of Fox Soccer.

Match report by Jere Longman of the New York Times.

Player ratings by Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365.

dN

NEXT:

-Sat May 29

USA v Turkey - 1PM Central on ESPN2

Venue: Lincoln Financial Field - Philadelphia PA

dN

My thoughts on last nights game:

I think the game was a sellout. It sure looked full to me.

In a very flawed game the USA took a 1-0 lead, then surrendered 2 goals, then tied it up, and promptly surrendered 2 more goals. Not good.

The better part of the USA regular rotation watched the game from a private suite, while several backups got a chance to show what they had.

-Sitting out: Jozy Altidore, Carlos Bocanegra, Michael Bradley, Jay DeMerit, Clint Dempsey, Landon Donovan, Benny Feilhaber, Tim Howard

-3 other players who are virtual locks for the WC roster were on the game day roster but did not see the field - Ricardo Clark, Marcus Hahnemann & Jonathan Spector.

Oguchi Onyewu was on display last night too, and the rust is very apparent. If the tournament started this weekend I don't see how he could play.

Robbie Findley and Chad Marshall did not play at all.

The left fullback scene was a nightmare for the entire 90 minutes with Jonathan Bornstein stinking up the first 45 minutes and Heath Pearce possibly even worse in the second half.

Edson Buddle took a real shot to the mouth early in the game and ended up getting stitches in his upper lip at half time.

dN

du Nord Three Stars Of The Game

3. Stuart Holden - lots of movement, lots of good positive passing, and even more aggresive late when the moved him into the middle of the field. Give him some more time in there and he will pick some locks.

2. Clarence Goodson - had a good night overall and a great goal, but if you are part of a back 4 that gives up 4 then you are not the top player of the game.

1. Libor Sionko/Jan Polak - both terrorized the USA defence ever time they got near or in the box. Both also scored goals, and then made teammates look really good several times each.

NOTE: I also thought that Beasley, Torres, Gomez, Rogers, Ching & Cherundolo had good games.

dN

You know that pissed off look that Clint Dempsey has a lot of times? Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated finds out where some of that is coming from. Dempsey does not mince words.

-I too have been critical of Deuce, but I love the guy, and he has ALWAYS proved me wrong. I have to imagine that this rage is partially what fuels his great performances too.

dN

Ronald Blum of the Associated Press on why Juergen Klinsmann turned down the chance to become the USA coach 3 1/2 years ago, and other USA related topics. Via Yahoo.

dN

FIFA.com talks to Stuart Holden.

dN

The Bolton News reports that Bolton has offered a new contract to Stuart Holden.

dN

ESPN Soccernet has a short video interview with Bob Bradley talking about his roster.

dN

Noah Davis of the USA 10 Kit with an article on Herculez Gomez.

dN

Vital Football in the UK with a solid preview of Team USA from their point of view.

dN

Wayne Drehs of ESPN Soccernet reports on former USA El Capitan Claudio Reyna taking in the game in Hartford on Tuesday night.

dN

- - - - -

Official Team Blog

The US Soccer video page at You Tube. Fantastic stuff!

- - - - -

dN

USA OPPONENTS

England

-FIFA.com talks to centerback Jamie Carragher.

MEXICO WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

Forward Guillermo Franco as announced that he is leaving his club team West Ham this summer.

WORLD CUP 2010 - SOUTH AFRICA

Australia today became the first team to officially arrive in South Africa.

dN

Brazil have finally lined up 2 tuneup games, Jun 7 v Tanzania, and against Zimbabwe on an unknown date.

dN

I like the gray that has come into Maradona's beard. Mine is only the occasional straggley gray hairs still.

dN

FIFA.com talks to South Africa winger Steven Pienaar.

dN

FIFA.com also talks to Ghana coach Milovan Rajevac about Michael Essien and his team.

dN

Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Wed May 26

France 2-1 Costa Rica - Fra goals by Douglas Sequeira(OG) & Mathieu Valbuena. CR goal by Carlos Hernandez.

Mexico 1-2 Netherlands - Mex goal by Javier Hernandez. Net goals both by Robin Van Prsie.

Chile v Zambia

Uruguay v Israel

-Thu May 27

Denmark v Senegal

Honduras v Belarus

South Africa v Colombia

-Fri May 28

Algeria v Ireland

TWITTERVERSE

AleBedoya17

What doesn't kill you only makes you stronger!! it was a great experience and congrats to those who made it..Good Luck USA in SA! God Bless

robbierogers

Obviously gutted but thanks for all the support and I will be rooting for the US no matter what!!! Life is awesome!

jonnyb_13

Just landed in D.C. after the W.C. announcement. Get a chance to meet President Obama and former President Clinton tomorrow.

JozyAltidore17

So excited!!!! Thanks for all the messags people

DaMarcusBeasley

Respect for all the messages my friends!! On our way to DC.. Speak to u guys soon..

StuHolden22

Thanks for all the messages! It will be an honor to represent the USA in the world cup! Dream come true.. http://tweetphoto.com/24060459

EdsonBuddle

It is a great honor & dream come true to play for my country. Thx for all the congrats.

WHY NOT!

If something as small as not having enough MLS players available for the Gold Cup and Copa America 3 years ago was even close to a major sticking point that drove Juergen Klinsmann away from coaching the USA, then I say good riddance. That event is small potatoes in the long run, and the way US Soccer handled it was exactly how I would have done it.

WHY?

The latest FIFA rankings came out today, and I don't care. But.... if you take a look at the whole thing, I think you can break it down like this - the top 9 teams are in one group - Brazil, Spain, Portugal, Netherlands, Italy, Germany, Argentina, England and France, with the next 10-50 could all be thrown into a pot and drawn out at random, they are all that close to each other.

MLS WEEK 10

One before the full weekend slate.

-Thu May 27

Chicago Fire v FC Dallas - 7PM Central on ESPN2

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Kansas City has made a surprise signing with DaMarcus Beasley's older brother Jamar. He was a hotter prospect then the younger DaMarcus at the time, but several things have sidetracked Jamar along the way. Lets see what hes got!

MLS GOAL SCORING LEADERS

9 Edson Buddle

6 Dwayne De Rosario

5 Chris Wondolowski

5 Kei Kamara

4 Guillermo Barros Schelotto

MLS RUMORS

Rumor has 3 teams fighting over Italian centerback Fab Cannavarro - LA, NY & Philly. Do you see this happening? Nah, me neither. Although he would sell some tickets, not tons, but enough.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

-Wed May 26

DC United v AC Milan (Italy)

Venue: RFK Stadium

Seattle Sounders v Boca Juniors (Argentina)

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

US OPEN CUP

MLS - Play-In Rounds with the 2 winners advancing to the Round of 16:

-Wed May 26

New York Red Bulls v Colorado Rapids

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

dN

All the best Open Cup info can be found right here at The Cup.

USSF DIVISION 2

USLsoccer.com has a Q & A with Portland honcho Gavin Wilkinson about the teams last in the minor league, and next year headed to the major league.

-I had never met a New Zealander who wasn't a fantastic person until I met this arrogant prick. I do know some great people who think highly of him though, so maybe its me.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Wed May 26

Miami FC Blues v Austin Aztex

Puerto Rico Islanders v Carolina RailHawks

-Thu May 27

Tampa Bay Rowdies v NSC Minnesota Stars

-Sat May 29

Rochester Rhinos v Vancouver Whitecaps

Crystal Palace Baltimore v Austin Aztex

Tampa Bay Rowdies v Puerto Rico Islanders

NSC Minnesota Stars v AC St Louis

-Sun May 30

Montreal Impact v Carolina RailHawks

dN

Standings (As of Sun May 23):

14 Austin - 7 played

12 Vancouver - 7 played

12 Tampa Bay - 7 played

11 Montreal - 6 played

11 Rochester - 8 played

11 Portland - 8 played

10 Baltimore - 8 played

8 Miami - 6 played

7 Minnesota - 9 played

6 Puerto Rico - 3 played

5 Carolina - 5 played

4 St Louis - 8 played

NSC MINNESOTA STARS

The Stars go to Tampa Bay today for a Thu game, then head back home on Fri for a game against St Louis on Sat night.

US SOCCER NEWS

The Associate Press talks to Claudio Reyna who was recently put in charge of US Soccer youth development.

USA U18 TEAM

Lisbon International Tournament

Matches & Scores:

-Thu May 27

USA v Norway

-Fri May 28

USA v Romania

-Sun May 30

USA v Portugal

Roster:

G:

Earl Edwards - UCLA

Andrew Wolverton - Concorde Fire

D:

Michael Ambrose - FC Dallas

Bryan Gallego - New York Red Bulls

Andrew Jean-Baptiste - Albertson

Jordan McCrary - Concorde Fire

Boyd Okwuonu - FC Dallas

Eriq Zavaleta - FC Pride

M:

Sean Davis - New York Red Bulls

Amadou Dia - Real Colorado

Daniel Garcia - FC Dallas

Luis Gil - Real Salt Lake

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Miguel Lopez - Lonestar SC

Daniel Metzger - PDA

Jared Watts - Wake Forest

Riley Wolfe - LA Galaxy

F:

Victor Chavez - Real So Cal

Stefan Jerome - West Pines United FC

Sean Okoli - Washington Premier

CONCACAF

Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Tue May 25

USA 2-4 Czech Republic - in East Hartford CT at Rentschler Field

-Wed May 26

Netherlands v Mexico in Freiburg, Germany

-Thu May 27

Honduras v Belarus in Villach, Austria

CANADA

Paul James of the Toronto Globe & Mail looks at the beating Canada took Monday at the hands of Argentina and finds some silver.

-As much as it sucks as a fan to see your team go down hard, its certainly not embarrassing to go to Buenos Aires and get pounded, cuz almost everyone else does too.

VOYAGEURS CUP - CANADIAN CHAMPIONSHIP

The 3 professional teams in Canada play each other home and away for the annual title.

Vancouver must win in Montreal tonight or the title goes to Toronto.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Apr 28

Toronto FC 2-0 Montreal Impact

-May 5

Vancouver Whitecaps 1-1 Montreal Impact

-May 12

Montreal Impact 0-1 Toronto FC

-May 19

Vancouver Whitecaps 0-0 Toronto FC

-May 26

Montreal Impact v Vancouver Whitecaps

-Jun 2

Toronto FC v Vancouver Whitecaps

dN

STANDINGS (4 rounds total):

7 Toronto (3 played)

2 Vancouver (2 played)

OUT-1 Montreal (3 played)

The winner represents Canada in the CONCACAF Champions League.
