It's Day 333 of 2017.

Huge congrats to Brazilian club Gremio on winning the Copa Libertadores.

dN

A Supermoon is coming on Sunday night. Are you ready to howl!

dN

MLS Semifinal 2nd Leg game on Thu night - Seattle v Houston - at 9:30pm CT

I'm gonna watch at Town Hall Brewery - Minneapolis - Seven Corners

Come hang with me

dN

Montreal's Hassoun Camara has retired early after suffering 3 concussion in the past season. He is worried about the long term affects. By Ian Holyman for ESPNFC.

dN

Gianni Infantino, FIFA, Russia 2018, future World Cups and other acts of bumbling idiocy. By Marina Hyde for the Guardian.

Sunil Gulati's support for Infantino is another reason that Gulati should not be US Soccer president any longer.

dN

MLS

Toronto has won the Semifinal in the East and will host the Cup Final on Sat Dec 9

Tonight the semis move to Seattle, who have a 2-0 lead, and Houston is without 2 suspended starters: forward Alberth Elis and fullback Jalil Anibaba. Seattle is also without a suspended starter: centerback Roman Torres.

My Tor-Col Notes:

That was a great tense jittery game.

Toronto deserved the win.

Columbus came out strong and through out the game had 3 or 4 excellent chances to score. Its all on them that they lost.

Justin Meram was the main failure for Columbus. He had 2 glorious chances to score, fumbling on one and frantically over-hitting the ball on the other. A calmer mind would have buried both.

Columbus had not lost a game since Aug 5.

Late in the first half Toronto began to pick up steam and really upped the pressure.

TFC earned a penalty kick. But the mighty Zack Steffen stuffed it.

Jozy Altidore went down with an ankle injury in the 49th min but came back on to score the game winner in the 60th. Then he was subbed off. Huge performance.

By the way, the hold up play by Giovinco should be taught in classrooms. It has little to do with size and strength. Magical back pass too.

Toronto hung on as Columbus tried everything to tie the game and win the series.

Post-game Media:

Toronto - A big night for Jozy. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

Columbus - The season is now over for Columbus, but a bigger battle is ahead for the city. By Michael Arace for the Columbus Dispatch.

Today's Pre-game Media:

Seattle - The Sounders defense is in top form. By Geoff Baker for the Settle Times.

Houston - Your basic boilerplate pregame scouting report. By Corey Roepken for the Houston Chronicle.

Gustav Svensson helped Sweden knock off Italy earlier this month and now wants to guide Seattle back to the top. By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

Semifinal Schedule:

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 29

Toronto 1-0 Columbus

-Thu Nov 30

Seattle v Houston (2-0) - 9:30pm CT on ESPN

Greg Vanney of Toronto named MLS Coach Of The Year.

dN

Sugar Pills: du Nord Music Mix Vol 148 (download + extract)

dN

USL

Rochester Rhinos announced that they will not operate in 2018 in an attempt to stabilize their business. Press release from the club.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Americans Jose Torres and Lalo Fernandez were on the bench for Tigres last night as they won 0-1 in the first leg of the Liga MX semifinals.

Jonathan Gonzalez and Edgar Castillo play tonight for Monterrey at Morelia in the other semifinal series.

Rumors say that Castillo has already signed with Colorado Rapids for next season.

dN

LIGA MX

A road win for Tigres in the 1st Leg is big.

America can't find a goal anywhere. Just 1 scored in the last 5 games and not more than 1 goal in any game since Oct 18.

Liguilla Semfinals Schedule:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 29

America-3 0-1 Tigres-2

-Thu Nov 30

Morelia-4 v Monterrey-1 - 7:00pm CT on Univ Deportes

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

Gremio got a win on the road and claimed the 2017 trophy via 3-1 aggregate.

This is their 3rd Libertadores title, and first in 22 years.

Final Schedule:

2nd Leg

-Wed Nov 29

Lanus 1-2 Gremio (0-1)

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPES TOP LEAGUES

Weekend Schedule:

-Fri Dec 1

Napoli v Juventus

Roma v SPAL

-Sat Dec 2

Arsenal v Man United

Atletico Madrid v Real Sociedad

Barcelona v Celta de Vigo

Bayern v Hannover

Chelsea v Newcastle

Leverkusen v Dortmund

Hoffenheim v Leipzig

Brighton & Hove v Liverpool

Monaco v Angers

Strasbourg v PSG

Athletic Bilbao v Real Madrid

Schalke v Koln

Watford v Tottenham

-Sun Dec 3

Internazionale v Chievo

Caen v Lyon

Man City v West Ham

Montpellier v Marseille

Benevento v Milan

Getafe v Valencia

The Bird Is The Word
