We made a list before the season started of 30 MLS players who we felt had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

30 breakout players for 2013: Week 3

Juan Agudelo - played the whole game against LA, but had no shots.

Alex - came on in the 59th min, but had only 1 real chance to do anything, other than defend.

Eric Avila - played the whole game against LA, getting a secondary assist on the game tying goal.

Steve Beitashour - still out injured.

Jerry Bengston - went the distance, and took 2 shots.

Claudio Bieler - played the whole game, taking 4 ineffective shots.

Alex Caskey - came in for the final 9 minutes.

Michael Farfan - started and went 67 min, getting off 1 solid shot.

Gabriel Farfan - was not on the game day roster, and has an issue with a hamstring.

Diego Fagundez - on the bench, but did not play.

Perry Kitchen - played the whole game, succesfully passing the ball alot, but he needs to drive this team forward more.

Mikey Lopez - on the bench finally, but has still not made his debut.

Darren Mattocks - bye week.

Kenny Miller - bye week.

Mario Martinez - started and went 70 min, with nothing to really report.

Jack McInerney - played 87 min, scoring the game winning goal by following up his own rebound and cooling putting the shot past the keeper and 2 defenders who were guarding the goal line.

Kekuta Mennah - bye week.

Justin Meram - came on for the last 14 minutes of the game.

Amobi Okugo - went the whole game, getting a yellow card, but otherwise very solid at centerback.

Martin Rivero - still out injured.

Oriol Uri Rosell - went the full 90, and kept things simple, but could not help breakdown Chicago either.

Kelyn Rowe - back into the starting lineup after coming on as a sub in their season opener last week, and was very active.

Chris Schuler - had his pocket picked and then burned for a goal.

Luis Silva - out injured

AJ Soares - played the whole game.

Bakary Soumare - on the bench, but has still not played this season.

Zarek Valentin - not on the game day roster

Diego Valeri - played the whole game, and was in the middle of a lot of the action, including 5 shots.

Jose Villareal - started and went 74 min.

Sal Zizzo - out injured.
