It's Day 245 of 2016.

The unraveling of the NASL appeared to pick up speed today with rumors flying hard and heavy that Ottawa Fury is leaving the league at the end of the season. And joining USL?!?!

Ottawa Fury released a statement that said absolutely nothing to put the brakes on speculation:

Statement by @OttawaFuryFC regarding earlier rumors today pic.twitter.com/nn6daZjVkn

— FuryFanatic❗ (@FuryFanatic) September 1, 2016

Remember THIS IS JUST A RUMOR.

But if you add on San Antonio leaving for USL after last season, Minnesota leaving for MLS after this season, the money troubles in Fort Lauderdale and Oklahoma City (and missing turf,) and TV broadcast issues with beIN and One World, its not looking very good.

The big pluses right now for the NASL are the stable ownership in Carolina, the expansion team in Puerto Rico this year and the new team coming in San Francisco next year.

dN

Minnesota played to scoreless game in Fort Lauderdale last night on a cricket field in front of dozens of people.

Game highlights [VIDEO]

3 shutouts in 4 games for Minnesota. Makes you wonder what would have happened if they hadn't benched Sammy Ndjock after he made a dumb play in an exhibition match.

But just 3 points from 3 games against mediocre to poor teams, albeit on the road, is not good enough to make you a championship caliber team.

The team seems to be playing most games in neutral - just enough not to lose. The fans are uninspired.

Kevin Venegas and Stefano Pinho who had been out with leg injuries both came on as 2nd half subs.

Official attendance was 455.

dN

Miami has thrown money at another NASL player - this time they bought New York Cosmos starting fullback Hunter Freeman. Wow.

The oddest part of this deal is that Miami never dealt with the Cosmos in this transfer - they went directly to the player and then the player cut the Cosmos in on the deal. I didn't even know that was legal. By Jake Nutting of Empire of Soccer.

dN

NASL Week 20 - midweek

-Wed Aug 31

Fort Lauderdale Strikers 0-0 Minnesota United

New York Cosmos 3-0 Indy Eleven

-Fri Sep 2

Ottawa Fury v Edmonton

NASL Standings (32 game schedule)

44 NYC (22 GP)

40 E (20 GP)

38 IE (22 GP)

33 MU (22 GP)

-----

27 TBR (21 GP)

27 FLS (21 GP)

26 CRH (20 GP)

25 ROKC (21 GP)

23 M (20 GP)

20 OF (21 GP)

17 JA (21 GP)

8 PR (11 GP) - did not start until Summer/Fall Season

dN

ACE Brixton: du Nord Music Mix Vol 94 (download + extract)

dN

I saw a weird thing last night on the MLS website - they had a video about Nigel de Jong leaving the LA Galaxy to sign with Galatasaray in which they basically crushed him. Making fun of his lack of offensive production and highlighting his ugly fouls. I guess you could say it was a "Good Riddance" message.

The clip has now been removed from the MLS Site, but not before people like the BBC wrote an article about it.

dN

Nicolas Lodeiro of Seattle Sounders named MLS Player Of The Month

dN

Robbie Keane played his last game for Ireland on Wednesday, his 146th, and scored his 68th goal. Beautiful.

dN

New England Revs are desperately looking for a fix. By Brian O'Connell of ESPNFC.

dN

Portland has signed centerback Liam Ridgewell to a contract extension.

dN

Chelsea has loaned out American centerback Matt Miazga to Vitesse in Holland. Vitesse is a club that Chelsea works with often and sends many of their young players on loan.

dN

USMNT with 2 World Cup qualifying games this week and next:

-Fri Sep 2

St Vincent + The Grenadines v USA - Arnos Vale Stadium, St. Vincent - 2:30pm CT on beIN SPORTS

-Tue Sep 6

USA v Trinidad + Tobago - EverBank Field, Jacksonville FL - 7:00pm CT on FS1 + Univision

Brad Guzan will start in goal against St Vincent.

Tim Howard will start in goal against Trinidad + Tobago.

Bobby Wood and Jozy Altidore are going to need to find a strong partnership in a short time before these two important games. They have already becomes friends off the field from previous camps. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

He can admit it now, there is a lot of pressure in being Jordan Morris. By Sam Borden of the New York Times.

Tight security is expected in Kingstown St Vincent for the Friday afternoon game. From The Vincentian newspaper.

The reason the game is in the afternoon is because the stadium does not have any lights.

With the USA training in Jacksonville before heading to St Vincent, and then returning there to play next Tuesday US Soccer president Sunil Gulati was in that city to speak with local sports leaders. Here is what he had to say. By Clayton Freeman of the Florida Times Union.

Ticket sales in Jacksonville are painfully low. This article says 16,000, but other reliable reports quoted 13,000. Oof.

USA Roster:

G: Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough, Ethan Horvath - Molde, Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Steve Birnbaum - DC United, Geoff Cameron - Stoke City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach, Michael Orozco - Tijuana, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Darlington Nagbe - Portland Timbers, Christian Pulisic - Dortmund, Caleb Stanko - Vaduz, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Rubio Rubin - Utrecht, Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes, Bobby Wood - Hamburger

dN

The Attorney General of Switzerland (aka NOT-FIFA) is investigating Frank Beckenbauer and three other German football officials on allegations of money laundering, fraud and other charges in connection to the German bid for the 2006 World Cup. Oh boy. By Deutsche Welle.

The Bird Is The Word
