STARTERS

So is Freddy Adu really headed to Aris Thessaloniki in Greece, the same team as Eddie Johnson? How weird is that? See Americans In Europe section for more details.

dN

Landon Donovan talks to the Everton website about his arrival in England.

dN

Clint Dempsey scored for Fulham today in a losing effort, but his goal was raved liked this in the Guardian (including mandatory derisory American remark): "That's a brilliant ... no, sensational goal out of nothing from Clint Dempsey ... particularly seeing as he's American. A long ball from the back is knocked his way, he's a study in concentration as he lets it bounce once in front of him and then unleashes an unstoppable volley from 40 yards that screams past Steve Simonsen and into the Stoke goal. That's Goal of the Month right there, if not goal of the season." Well the description is a bit wrong, but it's still fantastic. See it here from Match Highlight (scroll down, it's the last one.)

dN

A reader named M sent an email this morning with rumor of the USA v Mexico game in February being played on the 16th or 17th in LA at one of the big stadiums - Coliseum or Rose Bowl. So, a Mexico home game in other words. Hahaha. Just doing my part to the keep the rumor mill humming.

dN

Herculez Gomez has left Kansas City and signed with Mexican team Puebla, home to 2 other ex-MLSers Carlos Ruiz and Ramon Nunez.

dN

Soccer By Ives gives us video of a TV commercial Landon Donovan has done in Mexico! It's a doozy!

dN

Ives also reports via Twitter that "Max Bretos is leaving Fox Soccer Channel for ESPNews." Congrats Max.

ARTICLE OF THE DAY

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian with a fascinating theory that TV is ruining the evolution of football.

-I think this theory can be directly applied to the NBA as well.

MLS NEWS

The league has announced that next season's MLS Cup final will be played at a neutral site, to be announced soon.

-I love MLS Cup weekend. It get's better every season.

MLS RUMORS

Rosenborg in Norway report that they have sold their left fullback Roy Miller to the New York Red Bulls. Miller is a 25 year old Costa Rican who has played for his national team.

-So it looks like new technical director Eric Soler is looking to the league he just left for his first player.

TEAM USA JANUARY TRAINING CAMP

Here's the official team blog. Expect updates throughout the month.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Ives Galarcep at ESPN Soccernet looks at Eddie Johnson and Freddy Edu teaming up in northern Greece at Aris.

dN

Jen Chang of ESPN Soccernet with thoughts on Landon Donovan, Jozy Altidore, Freddy Adu, the future in Belgium and the USA January camp.

dN

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 talks to Jonathan Spector about his recent hamstring problems.

dN

Seltzer also has the latest word on Eric Lichaj and another possible loan deal away from Aston Villa. His prospects look very bright.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - came on as a sub in the 54th minute and scored his teams 2nd goal but they lost 3-2 at Stoke.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE - RUMORS

Greg Seltzer at No Short Corners always has the best scoops, but his latest on Rico Clark is interesting. (Scroll to the bottom.)

SPAIN

Simon Kuper of the Financial Times looks at the "Big 2 v The Rest" mentality of La Liga.

BRAZIL

Tim Vickery of the BBC looks at the problem some Brazilian players seem to have with home sickness (IE Jo at Everton).

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Part 2 of the World Football Insider list of who they think will be the 10 most influential people in the game in 2010. Here is the Top 5. The # 10-6 spots were posted yesterday.
