It's Day 335 of 2016.

pic.twitter.com/uvxe0jm1kA

— Chapecoense (@ChapecoenseReal) November 29, 2016

We all know about the horrible plane crash on Monday night in Colombia that killed almost everyone involved in the Brazilian club Chapecoense, but most of us know next to nothing about the team, and the awful sadness that has enveloped the city of Chapeco. by Simon Romero of the New York Times.

dN

MLS Playoffs

Lots of preview material to read:

The Canadian rivalry - Stu Cowan of the Montreal Gazette.

Impact wants that Final game - Lloyd Barker of the Montreal Gazette.

Impact counter attack is deadly - Bill Beacon of the The Canadian Press.

Do or die for TFC - David Shoalts of the Globe And Mail.

There will be a record crowd in Toronto - The Canadian Press.

A 1-0 win gets the job done for TFC - By Laura Armstrong of the Toronto Star.

Off the field victories for TFC - By Morgan Campbell of the Toronto Star.

Michael Bradley will need to lead TFC - By Ryan Wolstat of the Toronto Sun.

10 things to watch for - By Kurt Larson of the Toronto Sun.

Toronto FC hoping to become a relevant sports entity - By Dhiren Mahiban of the New York Times.

Semifinals Schedule

2nd Leg

-Sun Nov 27

Colorado Rapids 0-1 Seattle Sounders - SS advances 3-1 on aggregate - SS goal by Jordan Morris.

-Wed Nov 30

Toronto v Montreal (2-3) - 6:00pm CT on FS1

Final is in Toronto if TFC wins tonight.

Final is in Seattle if Montreal wins tonight.

MLS Cup Final:

-Sat Dec 10

Seattle + ???

dN

Someone has leaked the 2017 MLS game ball. Its different:

🍁 🇺🇸 Exclusive: Adidas 2017 MLS ball leaked: https://t.co/jwjJgJZXz0

— Footy Headlines (@Footy_Headlines) November 30, 2016

dN

Let me first say that I hate rumors... There are a lot of rumors swirling around the internet about the NASL. I don't know what to read or believe or anything. But there is plenty of talk of the New York Cosmos going belly up, followed by the whole league going belly up, followed by multiple teams jumping ship to the USL. If you want to stay abreast of the rumors I suggest you check out these Twitter feeds (you don't need Twitter to read them, just a browser):

Brian Quarstad

Neil Morris

Nipun Chopra

dN

On Monday the New York Cosmos laid-off most employees, told players they are free to look for other teams, and left many people unpaid. Yesterday their sibling TV company One World Sports did the same thing. By Andrew Bucholtz of Awful Announcing.

dN

Our very smart Friend-In-Football Mr T. Zathras has put together a great quiz for fans of USMNT:

Can you name the USMNT players Capped by Jurgen Klinsmann?

And much tougher cuz its longer ago and a much bigger list - Can you name the USMNT players Capped by Bruce Arena?

I got 63 on the Klinsmann list. And a 60 on the Arena list. Let me know your scores.

dN

Bruce Arena knows he needs to add to the attack for the USMNT. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

Arena did a long sit down interview with the crew at MLS Extra Time Radio. [VIDEO] By Andrew Wiebe and David Gass of MLSsoccer.com.

dN

Refreshments: du Nord Music Mix Vol 106 (download + extract)

dN

Liga MX Apertura Liguilla Semifinals:

Semifinals Schedule:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 30

Leon(8) v Tigres(3) - 8:30pm CT on Univision Deportes

-Thu Dec 1

Necaxa(7) v America(5) - 9:00pm CT on Univision Deportes

2nd Leg

-Sat Dec 3

Tigres(3) v Leon(8)

-Sun Dec 4

America(5) v Necaxa(7)

Americans in Liga MX Liguilla:

William Yarborough - Leon

Jose Torres - Tigres

Ventura Alvarado - America

The Bird Is The Word
