-Metrostars fan site MetroFanatic has a huge interview with coach Mo Johnston. He is a pretty upfront guy.

-Freddy tries to clear the air with Steve Goff of the Washington Post

-And fat-talking-head Mike Wilbon chimes in on a sport he knows nothing about. He and fellow egg-beaters-head Kornheiser went off on DC United yesterday on their bloviation-fest of a TV show - Pardon The Interruption.

-The first official MLS Award for this season has been announced - Pat Onstad of San Jose has been named Goalkeeper of the Year.

-MLS Award Finalists are announced (all the awards will be handed out between now and the Cup Final on Nov 13):

Most Valuable Player: Dwayne De Rosario of San Jose, Jaime Moreno of D.C. United and Taylor Twellman of New England

Goalkeeper of the Year: (see above) Joe Cannon, Colorado; Pat Onstad, San Jose; Matt Reis, New England.

Defender of the Year: Danny Califf, San Jose; Jimmy Conrad, Kansas City; Tyrone Marshall, Los Angeles.

Coach of the Year: Dominic Kinnear, San Jose; Steve Nicol, New England; Peter Nowak, D.C. United.

Rookie of the Year: Michael Parkhurst, New England; Chris Rolfe, Chicago; Scott Sealy, Kansas City.

Comeback player of the Year: Ronald Cerritos, San Jose; Herculez Gomez, Los Angeles; Chris Klein, Kansas City.

Fair Play: Brian Carroll, D.C. United; Ronald Cerritos, San Jose; Justin Mapp, Chicago.

-Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer asks Frank Yallop if he is going to be the next coach of Metrostars. Here is a summation of the reply: Canadian national coach Frank Yallop, speculated to be one of the top candidates for the MetroStars coaching position, said he is flattered to be considered for the job. But he said he has had no contact with Metros team president and general manager Alexi Lalas.

-Metrostars gave out a bunch of team awards (see team site for details on awards):

Youri Djorkaeff - Most Valuable Player & Newcomer of the Year

Amado Guevara - Play of the Year Award & Golden Boot

Michael Bradley - Iron Man & Young Player of the Year

Tim Regan - Humanitarian of the Year

Chris Leitch - Defender of the Year

Sergio Galvan Rey - Unsung Hero

-One of my favorite current German players, Christian Ziege, has announced his retirement due to an ankle injury that has not healed after long periods of rest. He has been playing with Kasey Keller at Moenchengladbach. I will miss his high quality nastiness. I will not miss his tendency toward the Mohawk.

-From Soccer America we get to see the 2005 MLS home attendance averages:

1 LA - 24,204

2 Salt Lake City - 18,037

3 Chicago - 17,238

4 Chivas - 17,080

5 DC - 16,664

6 Metrostars - 15,077

7 Colorado - 13,638

8 San Jose - 13,037

9 Columbus - 12,916

10 New England - 12,525

11 Dallas - 11,189

12 KC - 9,691

-You can vote for the MLS Goal of the Year (and see all of the nominee's).

My Fave Golazo's:

Taylor Twellman Week 1

Ronnie O'Brien Week 3

Clint Dempsey Week 5

Josh Gross Week 6

Peter Vagenas Week 8

Carlos Ruiz Week 9

Eric Vasquez Week 16

Clint Mathis Week 17

Amado Guevara Week 21

Alain Nkong Week 21

Justin Mapp Week 23

Jaime Moreno Week 25

My Goal Of The Year - Freddy Adu Week 28

Dwayne de Rosario Week 29

-Well, at least Carlos Ruiz finally showed his face yesterday in Dallas. No word yet on what the discussions were like, but he did practice with the team.

-Ryan Giggs got an elbow to the face as his Manchester United played Lille in the Champs League on Tuesday. He will need surgery to repair a fractured cheek bone.

-Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune piles em up with two more articles today: After the brief drought, a downpour of goals & A night for glory, shared by Henry

-Jonathan Spector of USA/Man U/loaned to Charlton is profiled by ESPNSoccernet.

-My pal KJ dropped this into the comments section the other day and I wanted to further illuminate it. Its his reasoning of "What in the name of all that is good and holy happened to Kansas City this year???": I think we (Minnesota Thunder & fans) spooked the Wizards. They didn't win a game after our epic visit (Thunder went to KC and won 3-1 in the US Open Cup on Aug 24th. KC went 0-4-4 after that night.) --and they came into that game on a five-game winning streak, and were 7-1-1 in their previous nine.

-Top 10 College Rankings

1 Akron

2 Old Dominion

3 New Mexico

4 Virginia

5 Connecticut

6 Indiana

7 St John's

8 Santa Clara

9 Maryland

10 North Carolina

-Champions League analysis: Chelsea's 4th goal, scored by Sean-Wright Phillips dashing to the end line and crossing for a sprinting Hernan Crespo was totally gorgeous! Bravo dudes! Bravo!! What an ass kicking that game was. Shevchenko got hurt for Milan in their 0-0 draw with PSV. And did you see the good news - Johnny Woodgate banged one home for Los Blancos de Madrid in their come from behind win over Rosenborg. Beckham was also huge again providing deadly passing & a classic free kick goal. The Inter Roller Coaster continues as they go to Porto and lose via an own goal and a heavily deflected shot. Lyon are 3-0-0 for 9 big points.

And all the days scores:

Fenerbahce 3-3 Schalke

Milan 0-0 PSV

Lyon 2-1 Olympiacos

Real Madrid 4-1 Rosenborg

Chelsea 4-0 Betis

Anderlecht 0-1 Liverpool

Rangers 0-0 Artmedia

Porto 2-0 Internazionale

-There was a lone match in UEFA Cup (tons more today - see yesterdays post for the full list):

Lokomotiv Moskva 0-1 Espanyol

-I was asked the other day if Landycakes was related to Urinalcakes or Littledebbiesnackcakes. I don't know, but I will look into it.
