We made a list before the season started of 30 MLS players who we felt had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

Week 8 Review:

Juan Agudelo - out injured.

Alex - on the bench but didn't play.

Eric Avila - played the full 90 in a losing effort, and stats say he was fouled 10 times! But did not contribute to any sustained attack.

Steve Beitashour - finally back from injury and played the full 90 minutes in his usual involved style.

Jerry Bengston - went the full 90 but too shots, niether of which was on target, and too few touches are not going to get it done.

Claudio Bieler - WED: started and played 74 minutes but wasn't terribly productive. SAT: played the full 90 but couldn't get much going.

Alex Caskey - came on as a sub in the final 20 minutes and was fairly active.

Michael Farfan - started and went 68 minutes having an average game.

Gabriel Farfan - killed time for the final 3

minutes of the game.

Diego Fagundez - started and played 61 fairly unproductive minutes.

Perry Kitchen - went the full 90 and scored a nice goal (the 2nd of his career) but needs to add more offense to his game.

Mikey Lopez - WED: not in uniform. SAT: was not in uniform.

Darren Mattocks - came on as a sub in the 58th min and had an ok performance.

Kenny Miller - not in uniform.

Mario Martinez - on the bench.

Jack McInerney - played 77 very good minutes, scoring 2 goals, the first of which was great, beating two defenders and the keeper. Named Player Of The Week by the league.

Kekuta Mennah - on the bench.

Justin Meram - not in uniform.

Amobi Okugo - went the whole game and was decent, made his contribution by setting up a goal.

Martin Rivero - not in uniform

Oriol Uri Rosell - WED: went the full 90 keeping busy, playing simple and solid. SAT: played the first have but was not his usual efficient self out there.

Kelyn Rowe - played the whole game but was not effective.

Chris Schuler - played the full match and had a fairly quiet day as they won. NOTE: he suffered a broken left hand that required surgery. No word on if he will miss any games.

Luis Silva - got the start and went 74 minutes and was in the thick of it.

AJ Soares - started but was burned for the first goal and then got injured and subbed out in the 18th minute.

Bakary Soumare - not in uniform.

*Zarek Valentin

Diego Valeri - started and played 76 min, scoring a good opportunistic goal as they tied on the road.

Jose Villareal - on the bench.

Sal Zizzo - not in uniform

*Loaned to Norwegian team Bodo/Glimt for the 2013 season.
