It's Day 246 of 2016.

I love World Cup qualifying! It's been out of my life for way too long.

USMNT with 2 World Cup qualifiers on the docket:

-Fri Sep 2

St Vincent + The Grenadines v USA - Arnos Vale Stadium, St. Vincent - 2:30pm CT on beIN SPORTS

-Tue Sep 6

USA v Trinidad + Tobago - EverBank Field, Jacksonville FL - 7:00pm CT on FS1 + Univision

Some things to know about the team referred to as the Vincy Heat. From US Soccer.

Coach Jurgen Klinsmann says the USA is taking St Vincent + the Grenadines seriously. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

Q + A with Klinsmann talking about his team over the past 2 years (since the last World Cup.) Also by Carlisle.

USA Roster:

G: Brad Guzan - Middlesbrough, Ethan Horvath - Molde, Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

D: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Steve Birnbaum - DC United, Geoff Cameron - Stoke City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Fabian Johnson - Monchengladbach, Michael Orozco - Tijuana, DeAndre Yedlin - Newcastle

M: Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake, Alejandro Bedoya - Philadelphia Union, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Sacha Kljestan - New York Red Bulls, Darlington Nagbe - Portland Timbers, Christian Pulisic - Dortmund, Caleb Stanko - Vaduz, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F: Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders, Rubio Rubin - Utrecht, Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes, Bobby Wood - Hamburger

dN

I love the scene in the movie Superbad where Evan is at an "adult" party and gets trapped in the back room by a group of guys who are doing drugs. First the group is very suspicious and demand to know who "that guy" is? Meaning Evan. He says "I'm nobody." But one member of the groups insists he knows Evan as "Jimmy's brother" with "the beautiful voice," and that he must sing for them. So Evan busts into "These Eyes" by the Guess Who, with the group of guys singing backup. Its incredible! Great performance from Michael Cera as Evan. [VIDEO]

dN

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying Semifinal Round:

The top 2 teams from each group will advance to Final Round - the Hexagonal.

With 2 games remaining only 1 team has advanced (Mexico) and only 1 team has been eliminated (St Vincent.)

Standings:

Group A

12A Mexico (+10 GD)

4 Honduras (-1 GD)

4 Canada (-4 GD)

2 El Salvador (-5 GD)

Group B

10 Costa Rica (+5 GD)

7 Panama (+2 GD)

4 Jamaica (-4 GD)

1 Haiti (-3 GD)

Group C

10 Trinidad + Tobago (+8 GD)

7 United States of America (+7 GD)

6 Guatemala (+1 GD)

0E Saint Vincent + the Grenadines (-16 GD)

Match schedule:

-Fri Sep 2

Hon v Can

El S v Mex

Pan v Jam

Hai v CR

TnT v Guat

St V v USA

-Tue Sep 6

Mex v Hon

Can v El S

CR v Pan

Jam v Hai

USA v TnT

Guat v St V

dN

Young American midfielder Lynden Gooch has started all 3 games for Sunderland this season. This is his story. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

dN

EDITORIAL: I know the Minnesota United players are taking to social media after all their recent games to express their respect and gratitude for teammates working very hard every game to get positive results and leaving it all on the field and keeping the clean sheets etc. Some fans express the same sentiments too. I respect and appreciate that. But I'm here to tell you that its not good enough. This team needs to entertain, to inspire, to project attitude. They need to dominate. They should be pouring in the goals and being stout in the back. And injuries are not an excuse - they are a fact, every team has injuries. The Loons need to run over Fort Lauderdale, Miami, Jacksonville, OKC, Tampa, Puerto Rico and Carolina. New York is the only other team that is really good. Edmonton and Indy are solid and consistent, but they are as boring as dirt. (And don't even try that "dirt is complex" shit with me.) Minnesota should be crushing the rest of them. Seriously. Lets go. Start on Saturday at home against Rayo OKC. Show us what you are really made of.

dN

NASL Week 20 schedule:

-Fri Sep 2

Ottawa Fury v Edmonton

-Sat Sep 3

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v New York Cosmos

Carolina RailHawks v Jacksonville Armada

Puerto Rico v Miami

Indy Eleven v Tampa Bay Rowdies

Minnesota United v Rayo OKC - 7pm CT on My29 in Twin Cities.

NASL Standings (32 game schedule)

44 NYC (22 GP)

40 E (20 GP)

38 IE (21 GP)

33 MU (22 GP)

-----

27 TBR (21 GP)

27 FLS (21 GP)

26 CRH (20 GP)

25 ROKC (21 GP)

23 M (20 GP)

20 OF (21 GP)

17 JA (21 GP)

8 PR (11 GP) - did not start until Summer/Fall Season

dN

MLS Week 26 schedule:

-Thu Sep 1

New York City 3-2 DC United

-Sat Sep 3

Vancouver v NYRB

New England v Colorado

Chicago v Philadelphia

Dallas v Portland

LA v Columbus

Frank Lampard did it again for NYC!

-He scored in the 85th to give them the lead, which they relinquished in the 1st minute of 2nd half stoppage time. (Lamar Neagle tied it for DC.)

-Then he scored his 2nd goal of the game in the 3rd minute of 2nd half stoppage time for the win!

-Lampard has 11 goals in 16 games, and must be considered as a MVP candidate.

NYC is back in 1st place in the East, but have played 1 more game than Toronto who sits just 1 point behind.

dN

MLS teams - Who's HOT and Who's NOT - August 2016 edition

-Trend over the past 5 games - no previous standings or perceptions are taken into account. Simply who is best RIGHT NOW.

1 Philadelphia Union

2 Real Salt Lake

3 Toronto

4 Seattle Sounders

5 New York Red Bulls

6 New York City

7 Dallas

8 DC United

9 Montreal Impact

10 Columbus Crew

11 Sporting Kansas City

12 Portland Timbers

13 Orlando City

14 Chicago Fire

15 Houston Dynamo

16 Colorado Rapids

17 San Jose Earthquakes

18 LA Galaxy

19 Vancouver Whitecaps

20 New England Revolution

dN

These guys can't be seen as lagging behind Landon Donovan!

Kyle Martino & Stuart Holden have become investors in the ownership group of Spanish club Mallorca that includes Steve Nash & Robert Sarver.

— Grant Wahl (@GrantWahl) September 1, 2016

dN

10 things to look out for in UEFA World Cup 2018 qualifying. From the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
