It's Day 154 of 2016.

US Open Cup - 3rd Round:

Saint Louis 0-2 Minnesota United

My Minnesota United Notes:

Unfortunately there is no video highlight package from the game.

MU goals by Kevin Venegas and Jack Blake.

Minn got revenge for last year's USOC loss at the same St Louis team.

Venegas continued his team MVP season with the game winner in the 69th minute.

Blake made his Minn debut and got the insurance goal in the 90th min.

The first half was very poor from Minnesota, and even after they took the lead they looked shaky and ready to give up the tying goal at any second, right up until the point when Blake snagged the death blow.

In most respects it looked like a carbon copy of the 2015 version of this same game. Except the happy ending.

The 2 subs did a great job helping to win this game. Which has not been something you could say very often for Minnesota this season. Both Ibson (replaced an injured JC Banks) and Danny Cruz (came on for Stefano) had great minutes with no mistakes and lots of positives. Including an assist by Cruz on goal #2. Great to see.

The other good aspect for Minn was at times they really pressed the ball high up the field and then filled the passing lanes behind them, a good tactic, but not used nearly enough.

Minnesota's 4th Round opponent will be none other than Sporting Kansas City at home on Wed Jun 15.

This will be the 4th time these two have met in the Open Cup, with KC winning twice (1 at home and 1 away) prior and MU once (away.)

Here is a clip of the Venegas goal. His defense led to a turnover, followed by a great chipped pass from Ramirez back to Venegas who put his shot between the StL keepers legs!

@__Viva placing his shot perfectly. No highlights tonight but catch the full match: https://t.co/Od0pKMnTTmhttps://t.co/itPKVQHNmR

— Minnesota United FC (@MNUnitedFC) June 2, 2016

dN

Here are the other results from the 3rd Round of the US Open Cup.

A few upsets happened, and all were road victories:

Miami FC 1-2 Wilmington Hammerheads

Rayo OKC 1-2 OKC Energy

Sacramento Republic 1-3 Kitsap Pumas

And how did the 3 derby matches turn out:

Rayo OKC 1-2 OKC Energy - the lower division team won in Added Extra Time.

Carolina RailHawks 5-0 Charlotte Independence - weirdly close despite the score. The 90 minutes of regulation ended 0-0, but once the first goal was scored by the RailHawks the dam burst and the precious water flowed.

La Maquina 2-0 LA Wolves - two amateur teams battled it out and the winners reward is a game at the Stub Hub Center against the Galaxy - another derby!

dN

MLS teams join in the next (4th) round of the Open Cup on Tue Jun 14 and Wed Jun 15. Here are those matches.

Including 8 derbys:

Chicago Fire v Indy Eleven - The Peter Wilt's Ex's derby

Colorado Rapids v Colorado Springs Switchbacks

Houston Dynamo v San Antonio

Jacksonville Armada v Orlando City

LA Galaxy v La Maquina

New York City v New York Cosmos

Rochester Rhinos v New York Red Bulls

Seattle Sounders v Kitsap Pumas

dN

The USL (in conjunction with MLS) has been named as one of 6 leagues (Australia, Brazil, German, Netherlands, Portugal) that will test video replay. No date has been set for the testing to begin, but these are the 4 areas that will be affected by the review process:

Goals scored

Penalty calls

Red Card calls

Mistaken Identity in Card calls

They are calling this project: Video Assistant Referee (VAR)

dN

Domenico Scala resigned from FIFA last month, he was head of the Compliance Committee, after the new leadership of the organization took away all the independence of his job. Its now coming to light that new president Gianni Infantino played a big role in the departure, and US Soccer president Sunil Gulati's name is included in the mess but not explained. By Paul Nicholson and Andrew Warshaw of Inside World Football.

The gist of the story is that Infantino and Scala clashed and when Scala would not back down Infantino orchestrated the removal of Scala's power to investigate other FIFA members as was his mandate. So Scala walked.

Keep this in mind - NOTHING has changed at FIFA.

dN

An in-depth look at CONCACAF crook Jeffrey Webb, a very powerful FIFA player who we knew almost nothing about. By Steve Brenner of the Guardian.

dN

Its always a good day when you find out that Werner Herzog has a new film coming out. Trailer for Lo And Behold.

dN

Bubble: du Nord Music Mix Vol 86 (download + extract)

dN

It's 2 months old and I'm still laughing hard! Space Pants.

dN

MLS Week 14:

-Wed Jun 1

Philadelphia 3-2 Columbus

DC 0-2 Seattle

Portland 1-0 San Jose

-Thu Jun 2

New York City v Salt Lake

Dallas v Houston

LA v Kansas City

-The league is then off until Jun 18.

My MLS Notes:

Philadelphia is becoming a legit contender. No longer just the best team in a lousy Eastern Conference.

Still plenty of time for Philly to throw it all away though.

Everything that went right for Columbus last season is going wrong this year: Odd bounces, out-working the opponent, timely referee decisions (like Red Cards,) inner-peace/inner-turmoil, beautiful goals. Its all gone bizarro.

DC created a lot of chances and took 15 shots but Seattle keeper Stef Frei only had to save 1. Not good enough for DC.

Seattle got 2 goals by pressuring high up the field on the road late in the game. Very effective and surprising tactic. Most teams only do this early in the game, and even less on the road.

The return of Liam Ridgewell for Portland paid off with a game winning goal. Despite helping them to the 2015 title, he is an underrated part of this team.

dN

Houston Dynamo castoff Owen Coyle already has a new coaching job: manager of Blackburn. Sweet lordy.

dN

Things just continue to go wrong for David Beckham and MLS in Miami. By Steve Brenner of Heat Street.

dN

2016 Canadian Championship Semifinals:

1st Leg

-Wed Jun 1

Ottawa 2-0 Vancouver

Toronto 4-2 Montreal

A big upset win for Ottawa of NASL beating Vancouver of MLS by 2 goals. Nice.

Of course Captain-Of-All-Captain Jonny Steele scored. He should be credited with all Ottawa goals.

Vancouver only started 2 regulars and subbed on 2 more. Where as Ottawa played all their regulars.

9,057 attendance for Ottawa. Great.

And Toronto lit up Montreal in the other first leg game. Toronto did make a big mistake though in letting the Impact get 2 late road goals which could prove to be very costly.

2nd Leg

-Wed Jun 8

Vancouver v Ottawa (0-2)

Montreal v Toronto (2-4)

dN

Alyssa Naeher of Chicago Red Stars named NWSL Player Of The Month for May

Yesterday I voted for Marcel De Jong of Ottawa as the NASL Player Of The Month For May. Results will be released sometime next week.

dN

Copa America Centenario Group Stage games:

-Fri Jun 3

USA v Colombia - Santa Clara - 8:30pm CT on FS1

-Tue Jun 7

USA v Costa Rica - Chicago - 7pm CT on FS1

-Sat Jun 11

USA v Paraguay - Philadelphia - 6pm CT on FS1

dN

Optimism for the USA at the Copa from one of Jurgen Klinsmann's biggest detractors. By Matthew Doyle of MLSsoccer.

This article starts out as more of an overall look at the tournament, but becomes an all-out USA primer.

dN

I am choosing Mexico to win it all.

dN

Current FIFA rankings of CAC teams by group:

(While Groups B, C + D are pretty even, the USA is in the toughest group by far.)

Group A

3 Colombia

23 Costa Rica

31 USA

44 Paraguay

(25.25 average ranking)

Group B

7 Brazil

13 Ecuador

48 Peru

74 Haiti

(35.50 average ranking)

Group C

9 Uruguay

16 Mexico

46 Jamaica

77 Venezuela

(37.00 average ranking)

Group D

1 Argentina

5 Chile

56 Panama

82 Bolivia

(36.00 average ranking)

dN

Frnech forward Andre-Pierre Gignac is breaking the unwritten rules of Europe's top players, by leaving the continent to star in Mexico (at Tigres) yet still be a part of the France's Euro 2016 team. By Philippe Auclair of the Guardian.

Sebastian Giovinco has been even more successful for Toronto in MLS than Gignac in Liga MX, but Italian coach Antonio Conte is too belligerent to admit it, and did not choose the red hot player for his squad.

I think in the end Didier Deschamps of France will look smart and Conte will look stupid with their roster choices.

dN

Finally, photographic proof that Peter Dinklage was in the original lineup of U2:

@dunord It's true. pic.twitter.com/DfiWZGjETF

— Setting the Table (@settingthetable) June 2, 2016

Special thanks to Setting The Table.

The Bird Is The Word
