After a nearly 3 week break for the World Cup group stages the league kicks back in with a full slate of games this weekend.

And Sunday sees the grand opening of PPL Park in Philadelphia!!!

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Jun 25

Real Salt Lake v San Jose Earthquakes - 8:00 PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

-Sat Jun 26

Columbus Crew v DC United - 6:30 PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Toronto FC v Los Angeles Galaxy - 6:30 PM Central on FSC

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Kansas City Wizards v New York Red Bulls - 7:30 PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: CommunityAmerica Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Houston Dynamo v Colorado Rapids - 7:30 PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Chivas USA v FC Dallas - 9:30 PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

-Sun Jun 27

Philadelphia Union v Seattle Sounders FC - 4:00 PM Central on ESPN2

Venue: PPL Park - Chester PA

New England Revolution v Chicago Fire - 6:00 PM Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

dN

Salt Lake's most recent 5 games: WTWWW

San Jose's most recent 5 games: TLWTW

dN

The Salt Lake Tribune with an article on RSL keeper Nick Rimando who goes for win #100 tonight.

The Tribune also reports that RSL has not lost in the past 20 home games.

-Captain Kyle Beckerman is hoping to return from a torn tendon in his foot.

And the Tribune with an article on RSL's links to and impact in the greater Salt Lake community.

James Edward of the Deseret News with an article on RSL midfielder Ned Grabavoy who could be a key player for the team this season.

Edward also previews tonight's game, noting that RSL has struggled after long breaks in the past.

Elliot Almond of the San Jose Mercury News on the Earthquakes purchase of midfielder Sam Cronin from Toronto. He looks to be an instant fill in for Andre Luiz who suffered a knee injury that required surgery and will knock him out for the rest of the season.

The Mercury News talks to Cronin about the move.

And Almond talks to Bobby Convey who after dropping out of USA national team contention has focused on his club, and it is paying off.
