STARTERS

Huge congrats go out to Prairie Seeds Academy and Apple Valley who won the Minnesota State High School Boys Class A and AA championships today. Both are unbeaten.

-So when do we see the real game, the two of them facing off. I say we get a dirt field and settle this thing on Sunday afternoon!

dN

The du Nord 2010 MLS Best 11. See it here!

MLS PLAYOFFS

The 2nd Leg kicks off tonight in Harrison!

dN

Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Thu Nov 4

New York Red Bulls v San Jose Earthquakes (1-0) - 7pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: Red Bull Arena - Harrison NJ

-Sat Nov 6

Columbus Crew v Colorado Rapids (0-1) - 3pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Real Salt Lake v FC Dallas (1-2) - 9pm Central on FSC

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

-Sun Nov 7

Los Angeles Galaxy v Seattle Sounders FC (1-0) - 8pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

GENERAL NEWS

How in the world did I miss a Jeff Bradley article from 2 days ago?!?!?

-Jeff Bradley of ESPN on the 2nd Leg matches.

dN

Charles Gooch of the Kansas City Star reviews his first round playoff predictions.

dN

Jared Montz has 2 timely audio interviews on his recent podcasts:

-Chris Wondolowski

-Nathan Sturgis

dN

Carl Robinson of the Red Bulls with his latest column in his native County Times of Wales. It's playoff time!

-This is Robinson's 4th year in the league, and first time in the playoffs.

-He has Gareth Bale fever too.

COLUMBUS CREW

Michael Arace of the Dispatch wonders if the Crew can rewind the clock back to 2008 and do it all again.

-No! Not without Sigi Schmid they can't.

NEW YORK RED BULLS

Tonight will be New York's first chance to win a playoff round at home.

dN

Joel Lindpere and Tony Tchani are both ready to play, while Thierry Henry is probable.

dN

Brian Lewis of the Post previews NYRB v Equakes.

dN

B Lewis talks to Red Bulls forward Juan Pablo Angel about the game, and his time in New York, which is quickly coming to an end.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer with plenty of notes before tonight's big game.

dN

Jeffrey Marcus of the Times previews the game as well.

dN

George Henn of the Daily News previews too. (Its a true rarity seeing this paper cover soccer and not have the byline be from Michael Lewis of Filip Bondy. Wow. Times have changed.)

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

Elliott Almond of the Mercury News previews the Quakes game in Jersey tonight.

STORY OF THE DAY

The day after word got out that American centerback Clarence Goodson was going to leave his club IK Start in Sweden in January to play for Brondby IF in Denmark, the news splashed in Denmark that the suburban Copenhagen club is in management tatters. They've been shattered.

After a clash between the teams owner and general manager over how the team should be run, the GM and 3 other board members dramatically packed it in.

Surprisingly its the GM who wants to institute financial reform and restraint, while the owner wants to go go go.

They have also been operating without a technical director for some time now.

So who went out and bought Goodson? I have to assume the owner did that on his own. Wow.

Our friend in Football Henrik from Denmark sent us this article from Politiken. (in Danish so git out yer translator)

NOTE: Late word is that an emergency stockholders meeting has been called.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Matchday 4 of the 6 in the Group Stage.

dN

Wednesdays round up: Arsenal losing on the road was the only upset, but not that big of one. Real Madrid was also held to a tie, but again on the road, and not that big of a deal. Bayern, Chelsea and Marseille all put on powerful displays!

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune on the masterful performance of the great Italian striker Filippo Inzaghi, and the rest of the Wednesday games all wrapped up nicely.

dN

A spot in the knock out stages is now secure for both Bayern Munich & Chelsea. Hooray beer for them.

dN

Matches and Scores:

-Wed Nov 3

Basel 2-3 Roma - Bas goals by Alexander Frei & Xherdan Shaqiri. Rom goals by Jeremy Menez, Francesco Totti(PK) & Leandro Greco.

Cluj 0-4 Bayern - BM goals by Mario Gomez(3) & Thomas Muller.

Chelsea 4-1 Spartak Moskva - Che goals by Nicolas Anelka, Didier Drogba(PK) & Branislav Ivanovic.

Zilina 0-7 Marseille - Mar goals by Andre-Pierre Gignac(3), Gabriel Heinze, Loic Remy & Lucho Gonzalez(2).

Auxerre 2-1 Ajax - Aux goals by Frederic Sammaritanno & Steeven Langil. Aja goal by Alderweireld.

Milan 2-2 Real Madrid - Mil goals both by Super Pippo. RM goals by Gonzalo Higuain & Pedro Leon

Partizan 0-1 Braga - Bra goal by Moises.

Shakhtar Donetsk 2-1 Arsenal - SD goals by Dmytro Chygrynskiy & Eduardo. Ars goal by Theo Walcott.

dN

Group Standings

dN

Matchday 5 games will be played on Tue Nov 23 and Wed Nov 24.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

The Shin Guardian strikes again with a Q & A with New York Red Bulls veteran centerback Mike Petke.

WHY?

The Daily Mail of England says Toronto FC are showing interest in hiring Iain Dowie as their new head coach.

-If that is the case, then they haven't learned anything from the disastrous first 4 years.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

VANCOUVER WHITECAPS FC

Bruce Constantineau of the Sun reports that the Caps have run into some of MLS's crazy contract rules in trying to sign a player.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America tells us about a (subscription only) article in the Sports Business Journal which describes the bad shape that MLS TV ratings are in. (Down over 12% this year.)

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

2 Americans played in the Europa League today, and here is how their team's sit in the standings after 4 of 6 rounds: (do you like that: "sit" in the "stand"ings?)

-Villarreal - in 3rd place with 6 points, but only 1 behind both PAOK & Dinamo Zagreb.

-Anderlecht - tied for 2nd with AEK Athens on 4 points, way behind leader Zenit who has 12.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE - Group Stage

Jozy Altidore - Villarreal - Thu Nov 4 - started and played 62 minutes as they lost 0-1 at PAOK.

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - Thu Nov 4 - went the full 90 as they drew 1-1 at AEK Athens.

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

The latest round. Matchday 4, was played today.

dN

Matches & Scores

Group Standings

dN

Matchday 5 games will be played on Wed Dec 1 & Thu Dec 2.

AFRICA

Nigeria has hired Samson Siasia as their new national team coach. He has coached that countries youth teams to success and is currently the manager at Heartland FC in Owerri.
