It's Day 256 of 2017.

FIFA pres Gianni Infantino has been accused, by his former ethics committee members (who he dismissed), of interfering with investigations (and ultimately shutting them down) of FIFA executive committee member Russian Vitaly Mutko who is the head of their World Cup committee. By Rob Harris for AP.

Mutko has long been tied to real scum bags including the people who ran the doping scandal that got the whole Russian team tossed from the Rio Olympics. So why is Infantino protecting him? What is there to hide Gianni?

I've said it many times before, NOTHING at FIFA changed when Sepp Blatter and his henchmen were ousted - they just changed the name plates on the doors, business continues the same as it always has.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Tonight will be the 1st time our team has traveled to Vancouver for a game since 2010. Glad we are returning.

Do you think tonight's game isn't all the that important? Wrong-o. With a win Vancouver goes to the top of the Western Conference!

Sam Cronin and Jermaine Taylor are both out of the MN lineup with concussions.

Van's main threats:

Fredy Montero with 11 goals

Christian Bolanos with 7 assists

Cristian Techera has 6 goals and 5 assists.

Brek Shea, Alphonso Davies and Kendall Waston are other players of note on their squad.

David Ousted is a solid goalkeeper.

Their midfield destroyer Mattias Laba blew out his knee last month and will not be back this season.

Match preview with Vancouver quotes. By Jim Morris of the Canadian Press via Vancouver Sun.

Schedule:

Two games coming this week:

-Wed Sep 13

Vancouver Whitecaps v Minnesota - 9pm CT on FOX29

-Sat Sep 16

Montreal Impact v Minnesota - 6:30pm CT on FOX29

dN

Asking: du Nord Music Mix Vol 138 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Surveying the leagues most important topics this week: TFC domination, MVP race, Western race, Atlanta's continued success, and FC Dallas disaster. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Being declared the leagues best team isn't making things any calmer in Toronto. By Kurt Larson for the Toronto Sun.

Week 28 Schedule:

(13 games)

-Wed Sep 13

Atlanta v New England

Vancouver v Minnesota

-Sat Sep 16

Atlanta v Orlando

Vancouver v Columbus

Montreal v Minnesota

Dallas v Seattle

Chicago v DC

Kansas City v New England

Colorado v New York City

Salt Lake v Portland

LA v Toronto

San Jose v Houston

-Sun Sep 17

New York RB v Philadelphia

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

Quarterfinals Schedule:

Leg One

-Wed Sep 13

Barcelona (Ecu) v Santos (Bra)

Botafogo (Bra) v Gremio (Bra)

San Lorenzo (Arg) v Lanus (Arg)

-Thu Sep 14

Wilstermann (Bol) v River Plate (Arg)

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Cameron Carter Vickers scored the game winning goal in his first game for Sheffield United where he is on loan from Tottenham. He started and played the whole 90.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE - GROUP STAGE

Big wins on Tuesday for Barcelona over Juventus, and then all the usual's: PSG, Manchester United, Chelsea and Bayern.

Wednesday games feature: Tottenham v Dortmund, and Real Madrid, and Manchester City.

The Bird Is The Word
