STARTERS

Ghana win the U20 World Cup. The game against Brazil ended in a 0-0 draw after 120 minutes, and with both sides missing several Penalty chances, Ghana finally won the shootout 4-3.

-And the U17 World Cup in Nigeria starts on Oct 24. With the first USA game on Thu Oct 26 v Spain.

CHARLIE DAVIES

Statement From The Family Of U.S. Men's National Team Forward Charlie Davies:

In light of yesterday’s car accident involving Charlie Davies, the Davies family would like to extend their sincere thanks to everyone for their thoughts, messages and prayers. The tremendous support the family has received is of great comfort and much appreciated at this difficult time. Our thoughts also go out to the families and friends of those involved in the accident.

We would also like to thank all the staff at Washington Hospital Center in Washington D.C. and the staff at the United States Soccer Federation for all their tremendous efforts.

Charlie is in a serious but stable condition and is resting after extensive surgery. If you would like to send any messages of support to Charlie we have set up an e-mail account at CharlieDavies9@yahoo.com.

Thank you again and we will keep you informed when possible as Charlie continues his recovery.

dN

When the game ended on Wednesday night Jozy Altidore ripped off his shirt to show a Charlie Davies #9 shirt he was wearing underneath. Too bad he didn't bag a goal and get to show it off then!

dN

His club team Sochaux with a very nice article of appreciation for the USA fans at Wednesday nights game who honored Charlie in the 9th minute.

-That honor would have been miraculous had Conor Casey finished his prime chance during that minute. So damn close!

TEAM USA

This was my look of pure joy just seconds after the game ended!

dN

du Nord 3 Stars of the Game

3. Bryan Ruiz - Now we all know what a great forward he is and why teams around the world have their eyes on him. That second goal was a masterpiece.

2. Jonathan Bornstein - the game winner is enough to merit high praise, but he also pushed forward a lot and kept up the pressure. Sure he is not the best defender we have ever seen, but left back is a huge hole for us and he is as good as anyone else. Viva La Jonny!

1. Charlie Davies - the inspiration for the team and the fans all night long. We never stopped thinking about him, and the team never stopped playing for him. It's no surprise that Robbie Rogers wore the #9 shirt and delivered the corner kick for the winning goal!

-Honorable mentions to: Michael Bradley (goal), Steve Cherundolo (left flank pressure), Landon Donovan (constant danger), Robbie Rogers (upgrade over struggling Stuart Holden) & Jose Torres (brought life to the field).

-Special Honorees: The Screaming Eagles & Barra Brava of DC United for being such great hosts.

dN

The headlines of the La Prensa newspaper in Honduras has featured Jonathan Bornstein 2 days in a row now. He is officially a national hero for them!

-Yesterday the headline was Bornstein, Honduras loves you

-Today its Bornstein:'I'm happy to bring them happiness'

dN

Amy Lawrence of the Guardian with a good article on the strengths of the USA team.

-One of the comments after this article makes the statement that the USA has a much easier route to the World Cup than European teams, and gives these examples of teams: "England, France and Holland". So lets see who those teams had to face in their qualifying groups and compare them. (All we really have is FIFA rankings for a comparison tool):

20 Serbia

9 France

58 Austria

59 Lithuania

36 Romania

122 Faroe Islands

-top 2 avg 14.5

-overall avg 50.7

- - - - -

7 England

22 Ukraine

8 Croatia

73 Belarus

121 Kazakstan

201 Andorra

-top 2 avg 7.5

-overall avg 72

- - - - -

3 Holland

37 Norway

46 Scotland

66 Macedonia

87 Iceland

-top 2 avg 20

-overall avg 47.8

- - - - -

CONCACAF

11 USA

18 Mexico

35 Honduras

43 Costa Rica

82 El Salvador

72 Trinidad & Tobago

-top 2 avg 14.5

-overall avg 43.5

- - - - -

So you make the call on which group is tougher.

dN

Kyle Gustufson of DCist has some really nice photos from the game.

dN

Luke Cyphers of Soccernet sums up the whole night pretty well.

dN

I have been hearing today that AC Milan is going to demand that US Soccer pay Oguchi Onyewu's salary while he is out recovering from his knee injury. I guess that means that all the money Milan made from selling shirts with the names Inzahgi, Pirlo and Gattuso on the back after the last World Cup victory by Italy will be sent to the Italian Federation. That's fair right? Ha.

USL FIRST DIVISION PLAYOFFS

2nd Leg

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Oct 17

Montreal v Vancouver (3-2)

MLS

Week 31

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Oct 14

Real Salt Lake 2-0 New York Red Bulls - RSL goals by Andy Williams & Fabian Espindola.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 16,247

Value: RSL improve outside chance at playoffs

-Sat Oct 17

Toronto FC v Real Salt Lake - 3pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Value: Both have a shot at the playoffs, but need help

New England Revolution v Chicago Fire - 5pm Central on FSC & FSE

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

Value: NER still dreaming of a playoff spot, and CF want #2 in East

DC United v Columbus Crew - 7pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: RFK Stadium - Washington DC

Value: DC desperate, while CC want back to back supporters shields

FC Dallas v Colorado Rapids - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Value: FCD looking for a miracle end to season, while CR are fighting to keep their playoff spot alive.

Kansas City Wizards v Seattle Sounders FC - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Value: KC clinging to life, SS clinging to playoff spot.

Chivas USA v San Jose Earthquakes - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Value: CUSA going for a top in Western Conf.

-Sun Oct 18

Houston Dynamo v Los Angeles Galaxy - 2pm Central on Telefutura

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

Value: Both aiming for the supporters shield and West Conf #1 seed.

dN

Steve Davis at MLSnet looks at the importance of the matches this weekend.

MLS EXHIBITION GAMES

LA will hit the road to Europe after the season ends to try and make some post season money.

-Thu Nov 26

Kaiserslautern (Germany) v Los Angeles Galaxy

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Matchday 3 is Tue & Wed Oct 20 & 21.

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Matchday 3rd Thu Oct 22.

UEFA WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

The draw for the 8 team playoff the will award the last 4 World Cup spots will be held on Mon Oct 19.

CONMEBOL/CONCACAF WORLD CUP QUALIFYING PLAYOFF

This 2 legged playoff will determine a spot in the World Cup.

-Sat Nov 14

Costa Rica v Uruguay

-Wed Nov 18

Uruguay v Costa Rica
