STARTERS

Whoa. Sports Business Journal reports that MLS is asking Fox Soccer Channel to pay $20 Million per season for broadcast rights.

-The current deal is worth $3 Million per season.

dN

Alajuelense has won the Costa Rica championship. Big victory high five and congrats to them!

dN

Comunicaciones won the Guatamalan title. Congratulations to them and their fans!

dN

Once Caldas and head coach Juan Carlos Osorio have won the Colombian Primera A championship. Huge congrats to them.

FACT OF THE DAY

US Soccer has named Landon Donovan as the Player of the Year.

dN

US Soccer has named Gale Agbossoumonde as the Young Player of the Year.

MLS FIRST KICK

The first round of home games for each team for next season have been announced:

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 15

Seattle Sounders FC v Los Angeles Galaxy

-Sat Mar 19

Vancouver Whitecaps FC v Toronto FC

DC United v Columbus Crew

New York Red Bulls v Seattle Sounders FC

FC Dallas v Chicago Fire SC

Houston Dynamo v Philadelphia Union

Colorado Rapids v Portland Timbers

CD Chivas USA v Sporting Kansas City

San Jose Earthquakes v Real Salt Lake

-Sun Mar 20

Los Angeles Galaxy v New England Revolution

-Sat Mar 26

Chicago Fire SC v Sporting Kansas City

Columbus Crew v New York Red Bulls

Philadelphia Union v Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Toronto FC v Portland Timbers

New England Revolution v DC United

Real Salt Lake v LA Galaxy

-Thu Apr 14

Portland Timbers v Chicago Fire SC

-Thu Jun 9

Sporting Kansas City v Chicago Fire SC

FIFA CLUB WORLD CUP

The Final in the United Arab Emirates - The club champion from each of the 6 federations (plus the host) faced off for the world title.

dN

Inter Milan finished off 2010 in style with an easy win and another trophy.

dN

Final

-Sat Dec 18

Inter Milan 3-0 TP Mazembe - IM goals by Goran Pandev, Samuel Eto'o & Jonathan Biabiany.

STORY OF THE DAY

The New York Times reports on the wedding of my friend-in-football Amos Magee, long time great for the Minnesota Thunder and current assistant coach of the Portland Timbers. (thanks to Tom for this link)

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES COMING UP THIS WEEKEND

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Dec 18

Milan 0-1 Roma - Milan had a chance to gain a 6 point lead, but choked it away to a team who as beaten them 3 of the last 4 times they have played in Milan.

Espanyol 1-5 Barcelona - A miracle happened in the Barcelona derby - Espanyol scored a goal! It's the first goal Barca has given up in 7 games, but their winning margin is still 31-1 in those games. Oh, and Messi didn't even score!

-Sun Dec 19

POSTPONED - Chelsea v Manchester United - the battle for dominance

Marseille 1-1 Lyon - the two powerhouses of the past decade in France battled it out, but are still stuck behind the surprise leaders.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

The Daily Observer in Gambia with an article on Futty Danso of Portland and the 6(5) other Gambian players currently on MLS team rosters. (thanks to Bart for this one)

-They have the most players of any country in Africa.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

Kasey Keller has signed a new deal to play for the team another season.

dN

The Sounders announced that they have signed Erik Friberg, a 24 year old central midfielder from Hacken in Sweden.

-I assume he will take over the role Nate Sturgis played last season.

USA U20 TEAM

The team is in Florida Dec 12-19 for a training camp. They will play 2 friendlies against Canada.

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Dec 16

USA 2-0 Canada - USA goals by Soony Saad & Jack McInerney.

Match report from US Soccer.

-Sat Dec 18

USA 5-0 Canada - USA goals by Joseph Gyau(2) & Josh Gatt(3).

Match report from US Soccer.

dN

With a keen foreshadowing Noah Davis at MLSsoccer.com talked to both Gyau & Gatt on Friday.

dN

Roster:

G:

Zac MacMath - Maryland

Kevin Piedrahita - America de Cali

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Estoril Praia

Greg Garza - Estoril Praia

Sebastien Ibeagha - Duke

Perry Kitchen - Akron

Eric Schoenle - West Virginia

Ben Sweat - South Florida

Zarek Valentin - Akron

Korey Veeder - Unattached

M:

Steven Evans - Portland

Joshua Gatt - Rheindorf Altach

Joe Gyau - Hoffenheim

Alex Molano - Dinamo Zagreb

Amobi Okugo - Philadelphia Union

Dillon Powers - Notre Dame

Kelyn Rowe - UCLA

Conor Shanosky - DC United

F:

Conor Doyle - Derby County

Dylan Mares - Louisville

Jack McInerney - Philadelphia Union

Adrian Ruelas - Celtic

Soony Saad - Michigan

Omar Salgado - Unattached

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Charlie Davies was on the subs bench this week for Sochaux. This is big news even though he did not play.

dN

Rico Clark made his first start of the season for Eintrachu Frankfurt, and all they did was knock off the league leaders Borussia Dortmund. Huge for Clark!

dN

Things are piling up even worse for Jermaine Jones as they won yet another game since he has been sent to the reserve team. The first team has not lost since he was demoted.

dN

Mo Edu and Rangers had their Scottish Premier League game postponed due to bad weather.

dN

After a year away from the field in Munich, due to a loan and and injury, Kenny Cooper returned in a 29 minute substitute performance for 1860.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

BELGIUM - Pro League

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - went the distance as they won 0-2 at Club Brugge.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - game postponed due to weather

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - game postponed due to weather

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - game postponed due to weather

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - game postponed due to weather

Stuart Holden - Bolton - went the full 90 and got a yellow card as they lost 1-0 at Sunderland.

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - game postponed due to weather

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - game postponed due to weather

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - started but was subbed off in the 57th minute as they went to Blackburn and got a 1-1 tie.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Carlisle United - game postponed due to weather

Anton Peterlin - Plymouth Argyle - game postponed due to weather

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - game postponed due to weather

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - played the whole match as they won at home 2-0 over Arles.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - started but came out after 78 minutes of a 1-2 home loss against Hamburg.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the full 90 but it was rough as he was responsible for an own goal and a yellow card as they lost 3-1 at Nurnberg.

Ricardo Clark - Eintracht Frankfurt - played the full match as they won 1-0 at home over Dortmund.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - came on as a sub in the 71st minute but they lost at home 0-1 to Paderborn.

David Yelldell - Duisburg - went the distance but lost 0-1 at home against Bochum.

SPAIN - Primera Division

Jozy Altidore - Villarreal - came on as a sub in the 84th minute of a 3-1 win at home against Mallorca.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - Premier League

Tim Howard - Everton - Mon Dec 20 at Manchester City

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Luis Robles - Karlsruher - Mon Dec 20 at Union Berlin

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Mo Edu - Rangers - Tue Dec 21 at Dundee United

CENTRAL AMERICA

Guatemala - Liga Nacional:

The Apertura champion has been crowned and it is Comunicaciones.

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Thu Dec 16

Comunicaciones 1-1 Municipal

2nd Leg

-Sun Dec 19

Municipal 2-2 Comunicaciones - series ends tied 3-3, and Com win it 3-4 in a Penalty Kick Shootout.

dN

Costa Rica - Primera Division:

Alajuelense has won the Torneo de Invierno Final.

Final

Matches & Scores:

2nd Leg

-Sun Dec 19

Alajuelense 1-1 Herediano - series ends tied, and Ala wins it 4-3 in a Penalty Kick Shootout.

ENGLAND

du Nord Recap: With most of the games canceled due to snow we saw the top teams remain unchanged.

dN

The Guardian with 5 things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

dN

Kevin McCarra of the Guardian with a highly informed review of the first half of the Premier League season.

SPAIN

du Nord Recap: Barca stayed absolutely brilliant winning big in the Barcelona derby, but they did give up a goal for the first time in 7 games. Real stayed #2, follow by Villarreal, Valencia and Espanyol.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Barcelona's new ways to achieve brilliance, and the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

FRANCE

du Nord Recap: #1 Lille had their game snowed out, as PSG, Lyon and Marseille all got draws.

GERMANY

du Nord Recap: The leaders from Dortmund lost only their second game of the season, but still lead by 10 points over Mainz and Leverkusen. Another Bayern win sees them jump up to 5th place.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on Bayern's continued climb up the table, and the rest of the weekend's games in the Bundesliga.

ITALY

du Nord Recap: Milan could really stretch their lead at the Xmas break, but they lost to Roma and let shocking Napoli and Lazio cut the lead to 3 points.

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian says that Rafa Benitez cannot treat the owner at Inter like he treated the owners of Liverpool, and the rest of the round in Serie A.

SOUTH AMERICA

The Colombia Primera A Clausura championship Final

Once Caldas win another title! It is the clubs 4th championship.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Dec 15

Deportes Tolima 2-1 Once Caldas

-Sun Dec 19

Once Caldas 3-1 Deportes Tolima - OC win 4-3 on aggregate.

AFRICA

Samuel Eto'o of Cameroon and Inter Milan has been named the African Footballer of the Year!

ENDERS

Aaaaaaaaaahhhh! An old favorite! Thanks Joe.
