It's Day 31 of 2018.

"Beat them with unconditional love."

Someone left a racially charged warning letter on the windshield of the coach of a Idaho youth team (Idaho Juniors Futbol Club). The coach decided to take the issue public instead of staying quiet. Michael Lycklama for the Idaho Statesman.

They deserve our support all the way.

Now the IJFC has started an Anti-Racism campaign - please donate here if you can.

dN

Geoff Cameron plays for Stoke in England trying to avoid relegation, and has been very quiet since the USMNT was eliminated from the World Cup during qualifying. Not any more, in a very good article. By Marc Stein for the New York Times.

It was Bruce Arena's fault.

Klinsmann would have gotten the job done.

Arena hints that Cameron was one the "bad eggs" he referred too a couple weeks ago.

Credits Clint Dempsey with breaking through the English Premier League wall as an outfield player. (I would give that credit to Brian McBride.)

dN

Man City did pay NYCFC a fair market price for Jack Harrison - $6M. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Good business for New York.

Thanks to Kevin Chan for the heads up.

dN

LOS LOONS - MINNESOTA UNITED

A long interview with fullback Jerome Thiesson. He has some great things to say. By Tyler Hanson for MLS Multiplex.

Preseason Friendly Schedule:

-Sat Feb 3

MNUFC v Florida International University - 1pm CT at EFSC Melbourne Campus

-Wed Feb 7

CHANGED: MNUFC v Eastern Florida State College - Time TBA at EFSC Melbourne Campus

-Sat Feb 17

MNUFC v Charleston Battery - 6:30pm CT at Carolina Challenge Cup

-Wed Feb 21

MNUFC v Atlanta United - 6:30pm CT at Carolina Challenge Cup

-Sat Feb 24

MNUFC v Columbus Crew - 4:00pm CT at Carolina Challenge Cup

dN

MLS

LAFC will not have a local TV deal, instead they will use YouTube:

Breaking: @LAFC has signed an extensive partnership with @YouTubeTV that will see the company not only be its jersey front sponsor but also its local broadcaster.

— Ian Thomas (@byIanThomas) January 31, 2018

LAFC's Egyptian signing Omar Gaber is ready to get rolling with his new team. By Chris Young for Arab News.

Dilemma: Would you rather be fired for going all in and failing, or going ultra-conservative and not succeeding? Jason Kreis and Orlando City are making lots of moves this offseason that clearly says they are "going for it" right now. By Sam Stejskal for MLS.

Orlando continued their signing spree with the addition of defensive midfielder Uri Rosell from Sporting de Portugal. He formerly played for Sporting Kansas City.

One of my favorite people in MLS is Toronto president Bill Manning. He has helped build a real winner up north and has lots more ideas. By Ridge Mahoney for Soccer America.

dN

USL

Jay Heaps has been named Pres and GM of Birmingham Legion which will begin play in 2019.

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S 5 TOP LEAGUES

Today's games:

Chelsea got smoked at home!

And Man United were beat on the road by another top team.

Schedule/Results:

-Wed Jan 31

Chelsea 0-3 Bournemouth

Man City 3-0 West Brom

Tottenham 2-0 Man United

-Fri Feb 2

Koln v Dortmund

Marseille v Metz

-Sat Feb 3

Arsenal v Everton

Mainz v Bayern

Inter v Crotone

Munchengladbach v Leipzig

Burnley v Man City

Man United v Huddersfield

Lille v PSG

Levante v Real Madrid

Schalke v Werder Bremen

-Sun Feb 4

Atletico Madrid v Valencia

Espanyol v Barcelona

Juventus v Sassuolo

Liverpool v Tottenham

Monaco v Lyon

Udinese v Milan

Benevento v Napoli

Hellas Verona v Roma

-Mon Feb 5

Watford v Chelsea

Lazio v Genoa

The Bird Is The Word
