STARTERS

Hooked on Twitter: dunord

MLS

MLS Week 7 Matches

-Sat May 2

Toronto 1-1 Columbus - TFC goal by Chad Barrett. CC goal by Emmanuel Ekpo.

Venue: BMO Field, Toronto ON

Attendance: 19,998

DC 2-1 Dallas - DC goals both by Jaime Moreno. FCD goal by Andre Rocha.

Venue: RFK Stadium, Washington DC

Attendance: 14,225

Chicago 1-1 Seattle - CF goal by Marco Pappa. SSFC goal by Tyrone Marshall.

Venue: Toyota Park, Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 10,288

Colorado 2-0 Salt Lake - CR goals by Nick LaBrocca & Kosuke Kimura.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park, Commerce City CO

Attendance: 9,045

San Jose 0-1 Chivas - CUSA goal by Justin Braun.

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium, Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 10,049

Los Angeles 1-0 New York - LAG goal by Landon Donovan(PK).

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

Attendance: 21,006

-Sun May 3

New England 0-2 Houston - HD goals by Stuart Holden & Brian Ching.

Venue: Gillette Stadium, Foxborough MA

Attendance: 9,112

Kansas City was on the bye week.

dN

Los Angeles only has 7 goals so far this season, which is wretched, but Landon Donovan has a hand in them all. He has scored 4 of them, and set up the other 3! Amazing stat for him. LA also got their first win of the season this weekend.

dN

Dallas, San Jose, Columbus & New York are being left in the dust by the rest of the teams! After just 7 weeks of the season Dallas is already 15 points back of league leaders Chivas USA (who have played one more game)!

dN

The MLS coaches Hot Seat, brought to you by Cajun Creole Hot Nuts, the official Hot Nuts of Minnesota Thunder supporters.

Who will be the next coach to be out of a job? Here are the current Power Drain Rankings:

1 Schellas Hyndmann

2 Frank Yallop

3 Carlos Osorio

4 Bruce Arena

5 Tom Soehn

dN

Kasey Keller finally allowed a goal to be scored against him in the Seattle net.

dN

Jaime Moreno of DC United gets my vote for Goal of the Week, off a great feed from Christian Gomez. The old men get it done. Watch it here.

Moreno has also been named MLS Player of the Week.

dN

Cuauhtemoc Blanco's set up for Marco Pappa's goal in Chicago was a pure piece of brilliance too.

dN

Lars Lifrak of Soccer 365 does a Q & A with Fire forward Brian McBride.

dN

New England goalkeeper Matt Reis has the uber-gaff letting a Stuart Holden shot go right through his hands and legs for a goal!

dN

Steve Davis at Soccernet gives us 10 things he found lying around in his head from last weekend's MLS action.

dN

In the preceeding column Davis brings up some great points about how Toronto FC have run their team. This is how I feel about the whole affair:

I was in Dallas when MLS officially announced that Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment would buy into the league and start TFC.

And I said to league honchos Don Garber and Ivan Gazidis, "that organization has no idea how to field a winning team - just look at the Toronto Maple Leafs and Toronto Raptors, they are embarrassing."

Garber thought I was an idiot and Gazidis said that MLSE had won many awards for their great business skills.

We can all see how great those business skills are because the organization manages to sell tons of tickets and rake in sponsorship money without every fielding teams in any sport that contend for titles.

Isn't that insulting to the fans?

But then again, if the fans keep buying tickets why should MLSE change their mode of operation? And who's the fool then?

UEFA Champions League

Semifinals Second Leg Matches (with First Leg scores included):

-Tue May 5

Arsenal v Manchester United (0-1) - 1:30 Central on ESPN2

-Wed May 6

Chelsea v Barcelona (0-0) - 1:30 Central on ESPN2

dN

It's not looking good for Thierry Henry to play for Barca on Wednesday. He whacked his knee in the game against Real Madrid on Saturday and early word from the team is that he is OUT. I won't believe it until I see it.

dN

Patrick Barlcay of the Times hopes for an open game between Chelsea and Barca. Dream on man. No way Chelsea does anything but bunker massively.

dN

World Soccer Magazine ponders the absence of Italian teams at the top of the Champions League again this season. Via Sports Illustrated.

USL

My team dropped their home season opener over the weekend:

-Sat May 2

Minnesota Thunder 2-3 Vancouver Whitecaps - MT goals both by Ricardo Sanchez. VW goals all by Marlon James.

dN

-The new pitchside beer garden was tremendous, even if it did pull a lot of people out of our main supporters section.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

-"In Maurice Edu, Rangers, at long last, also have an American midfield player who is truly beginning to show his mettle on a sustained basis. Edu, a player many of us have doubted since he arrived in Glasgow (partly because we hardly saw him), has plenty skill but is also quite an enforcer."

The Times of London rave about Maurice Edu in their match report from Rangers 2-0 home win over Hearts.

-Since Edu has moved into the starting line-up replacing canned captain Barry Ferguson, the team has won 6 straight!

-Rangers are 1 point back of Celtic with 4 games left in the season, and the two rivals clash this coming Sat May 9. Rangers are the home team in this one. The Glasgow Daily Record talks to Edu about the game!

-You can see that game in the USA on Saturday morning at 6:30am Central time on Setanta Sports 1.

dN

Ravi Ubha of ESPN Soccernet gives us a look at the latest from several of our men playing around Europe.

MEXICO

FIFA.com has a Q & A with returning Mexicoach Javier Aguirre. The wrath of god?

dN

With now one game left in the Primera Clausura regular season, the playoff teams are taking shape:

-Already in are Pachuca, UNAM, Toluca, Monterrey, Puebla & UAG.

-While Atlate, Cruz Azul, Necaxa, San Luis & UANL are all out.

-Santos Laguna (22 points), Atlas (21), Morelia (21), Guadalajara (21), Jaguares (20), America (20) & Indios (20) are still fighting over the other 4 spots.

dN

It's always nice to see one of the biggest hacks in world football get sanctioned. Centerback Hector Reynoso of Guadalajara Chivas is one of the dirtiest players currently in the game, and he has been suspended for the remainder of the Copa Libertadores for spitting on a player from Everton of Chile. He is a disgrace.

CANADA

This years' Canadian Championship tournament between Montreal Impact, Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps gets rolling this week. The winner of two legged round robin tournament gets a spot in the 09/10 CONCACAF Champions League.

Here is the game schedule:

-Wed May 6

Toronto v Vancover

-Wed May 13

Toronto v Montreal

-Wed May 20

Montreal v Vancouver

-Wed May 27

Vancouver v Montreal

-Tue Jun 2

Vancouver v Toronto

-Thu Jun 18

Montreal v Toronto

ENGLAND

Race for the English Premier League title:

80 Manchester United (4 games left to play) - Last: W 0-2 at Middlesbrough - Next:

77 Liverpool (3 games left to play) - Last: W 3-0 Newcastle - Next:

74 Chelsea (3 games left to play) - Last: W 3-1 Fulham - Next:

dN

Long time Liverpool centerback Sami Hyppia who's contract expires at the end of this season has agreed to a deal with Bayer Leverkusen.

EUROPE

Simon Kuper of the Financial Times tells us about one of the legends of the game in the Netherlands - Han Hollander - a broadcaster who helped popularize the sport in the 1930s.

dN

Race for the Spanish Primera Division title:

85 Barcelona (4 games left to play) - Last: W 2-6 at Real Madrid - Next:

78 Real Madrid (4 games left to play) - Last: L 2-6 Barcelona - Next:

-Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Barca's heavenly show and the rest of La Liga for the weekend.

dN

Race for the German Bundesliga 1 title:

60 Wolfsburg (4 games left to play) - Last: W 4-0 Hoffenheim - Next:

57 Bayern Munich (4 games left to play) - Last: W 2-1 Monchengladbach - Next:

56 Hertha Berlin (4 games left to play) - Last: D 1-1 at Hamburg - Next:

55 (+15) Stuttgart (4 games left to play) - Last: D 2-2 at Arminia Bielefeld - Next:

55 (+2) Hamburg (4 games left to play) - Last: D 1-1 Hertha Berlin - Next:

dN

Race for the Italian Serie A title:

77 Inter (4 games left to play) - Last: W 2-0 Lazio - Next:

70 Milan (4 games left to play) - Last: W 0-2 at Catania - Next:

66 Juventus (4 games left to play) - Last: D 2-2 Lecce - Next:

-Alberto Cerruti of Gazzetta dello Sport with his team ratings for the round.

-Football Italia gives us the ups and downs of Round 34 in Serie A.

-Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on the team that was destroyed 60 years ago, Grande Torino, and the rest of Serie A from the weekend.

-Did you hear that Inter fans heckling their own players, especially Zlatan Ibrahimovic, this past weekend. Sure the team is running away with the title, but they have not exactly looked great lately. I am completely frustrated by them. Then you also saw Ibra score a goal and "shush" his own fans! (At least Inter aren't as brutal to watch as Juventus.)

dN

Leander Schaerlaeckens of the Guardian on Steve McLaren's Twente qualifying for next seasons Champions League and the rest of the Eredivisie from the weekend.

dN

Race for the French Ligue 1 title:

68 (+27) Marseille (4 games left to play) - Last: D 2-2 Toulouse - Next:

68 (+26) Bordeaux (4 games left to play) - Last: W 3-0 Sochaux - Next:

61 Lyon (4 games left to play) - Last: L 2-0 at Valenciennes - Next:

60 Paris St Germain (4 games left to play) - Last: L 0-1 v Rennes - Next:

dN

Olympiakos has won the Greek Cup Final in very dramatic fashion! Some match details via Reuters.

Greek Cup Final

-Sat May 2

AEK Athens 4-4 Olympiakos ended tied after extra time and went to PK's with Olympiakos winning 15-14!

SOUTH AMERICA

Corinthians led by Ronaldo, have won the Brazilian Paulista Championship.

This is the state tournament league that they play every fall. The spring league is the national championship. But seeing as Sao Paulo is by far the biggest of the 26 states, and with many of the best teams, their tournament is generally regarded as a very important trophy as well.

2nd leg Match:

Corinthians 1-1 Sao Paolo - after last weeks 3-1 win in the first leg, Corinthians win it 4-2 on aggregate!

COPA LIBERTADORES

Round of 16 1st Leg Matches:

-Tue May 5

SE Palmeiras (Braz) v SC Recife (aka Sport) (Braz)

-Wed May 6

Universidad San Martin de Porres (Peru) v Gremio Porto Alegrense (Braz)

-Thu May 7

CD Cuenca (Ecua) v Caracas FC (Ven)

Estudiantes de La Plata (Arg) v Club Libertad (Para)

Defensor SC (Para) v CA Boca Juniors (Arg)

CF Universidad de Chile (Chil) v Cruzeiro EC (Braz)

Matches Postponed due to Swine Flu scare

-Dates TBD

San Luis FC (Mex) v Club Nacional (Uru)

Guadalajara Chivas (Mex) v Sao Paulo FC (Braz)
