STARTERS

There are only 3 games left in the 2010 MLS season. It went by way too fast for me.

dN

Carlos Bocanegra returned to the lineup in France today. See deets below in Americans In Europe section.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"[This is] the most embarrassing and disappointing thing that has ever happened in my career."

-Bobby Convey in March 2010 after being pulled from a game at half time due to his poor performance.

"This is the most fun I've had playing soccer in a very, very long time."

-Bobby Convey in November 2010 after scoring 2 goals and setting up a 3rd in a playoff Quarterfinal win.

See the article below in the San Jose Earthquakes section.

MLS PLAYOFFS

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Nov 13

Colorado Rapids v San Jose Earthquakes - 8:30pm Central on FSC

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

-Sun Nov 14

Los Angeles Galaxy v FC Dallas - 8pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

dN

Team News

COLORADO RAPIDS

Colorado Soccer Now sees the Raps getting no respect from the start of the season right up until now.

FC DALLAS

Buzz Carrick of 3rd Degree reports that FCD are making further steps to making their academy a full time venture - they now have a school option to offer.

-This is great news.

LOS ANGELES GALAXY

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze on the Galaxy's quest to return to the MLS Cup final, and this time win it.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

Jack Bell of the NY Times on the return to success for Bobby Convey.

dN

Elliot Almond of the Mercury News on the highs and lows of Bobby Convey's season.

USA WORLD CUP 2022 BID

23 days until the rights to host the next 2 World Cups will be awarded.

BIDDING TO HOST WORLD CUP 2018 & 2022

When Saturday Comes on the desperate state of Australian football, and why the World Cup would save the game in that country.

STORY OF THE DAY

The Wizard of Futbol Strategy Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian tells us why Carlos Tevez is the key to Manchester City.

MUST HEAR PODCAST

Glenn Davis on the Dynamo All Access show talks to San Jose heach coach Frank Yallop and Dallas head coach Schellas Hyndman. Plus others!

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Gabriele Marcotti of the Wall Street Journal on how the Champions League money is diveed up among qualifying teams.

PICTURE OF THE DAY

Hey Houstonians! Git yer Dynamo license plates fer the pickup! Or the Lambo! Jose De Jesus Ortiz of the Chronicle tells you how.

NOTE: The Dynamo plates do NOT come with Trucknuts like all other Texas license plate orders do.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Team News

The Chicago Fire, DC United & Toronto FC have accepted the invite from the Charleston Battery to take part in next spring's pre-season Carolina Challenge Cup, Mar 5 – 12, 2011.

CD CHIVAS USA

Tony Edwards at the US Soccer Players Assoc looks at the end of another very bad year for the Ameri-Goats.

HOUSTON DYNAMO

The Shin Guardian does a Q & A with Geoff Cameron.

NEW YORK RED BULLS

Brian Lewis of the Post tells us that the Red Bulls have hired a new asst coach, and have 2 new players lined up for signing.

dN

Frank Giase of the Newark Star Ledger wonders how Red Bulls centerback Tim Ream DIDN'T win the league's Rookie of the Year prize.

-I have no idea either. I thought he was clearly the best.

SEATTLE SOUNDERS

Joshua Mayers of the Times has some quotes from team GM Adrian Hanauer after they were elimidated from the playoffs.

VANCOUVER WHITECAPS FC

The Canadian Press looks at the Caps management style and structure. Via the Toronto Globe & Mail.

dN

The Vancouver Sun reports that the hubbub over next seasons ticket prices has moved from Toronto to Seattle and now to Vancouver.

OFFICIAL MLS POST SEASON AWARDS

Comeback Player of the Year - Nov 10

Chris Albright (New York Red Bulls)

Bobby Convey (San Jose Earthquakes)

Brek Shea (FC Dallas)

Newcomer of the Year - Nov 10

Thierry Henry (New York Red Bulls)

Joel Lindpere (New York Red Bulls)

Alvaro Saborio (Real Salt Lake)

Coach of the Year - Nov 11

Hans Backe (New York Red Bulls)

Schellas Hyndman (FC Dallas)

Jason Kreis (Real Salt Lake)

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America takes us inside some of the new player contract and movement rules that are coming into place for MLS as soon as this season ends. Its complicated, naturally.

MLS RUMORS

The Bradford Telegraph & Argus in England has both San Jose and Portland chasing after Lee Hendrie of Bradford City in League Two.

USL/NASL NEWS

Brian Quarstad of Inside Minnesota Soccer reports on the Montreal Impact receiving heavy suspension and fines from US Soccer after their attack on the referee crew in their final game of the season in North Carolina.

-One of the Montreal players involved, Adam Braz, has got to be the most tragically comic players in the history of the league. A guy with a huge heart and average talent who takes every aside as personal, then can't control his thin skinned rage. I have never seen a player so easy to wind up, and then explosively violent.

An article posted later in the day on Inside Minnesota Soccer has some video of the Montreal players and staff chasing after the referees.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

NewOrleans.com has an article on fellow blogger, podcaster, former MLS player, current youth camp mogul, and friend-in-football Jared Montz.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

The Original Winger does a Q & A with Charlie Davies.

-NOTE: The question was not asked about the speeding incident last month.

dN

Arch Bell of Yanks Abroad talks to Alejandro Bedoya on the end of the Swedish season.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

FRANCE - Coupe de la Ligue Quarterfinals

Carlos Bocanegra - St Etienne - Tue Nov 9 - back in the lineup going the full 90 but they lost 2-0 at Auxerre.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Wed Nov 10 at Chelsea

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Wed Nov 10 v Blackpool

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - Wed Nov 10 v Blackpool

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - Wed Nov 10 v Arsenal

Stuart Holden - Bolton - Wed Nov 10 at Everton

Tim Howard - Everton - Wed Nov 10 v Bolton

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Wed Nov 10 at Chelsea

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - Wed Nov 10 v Blackpool

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Wed Nov 10 v West Brom

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Maurice Edu - Rangers - Wed Nov 10 v Hibernian

SPAIN - Copa Del Rey

Jozy Altidore - Villarreal - Wed Nov 10 - 2nd Leg v Polideportivo Ejido. (1-0)

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Brian Sciaretta of Yanks Abroad talks to Jonathan Bornstein about his plans for heading to Monterrey and his new team Tigres in January.

ENGLAND

The BBC with a report that Chelsea striker Didier Drogba has been suffering from Malaria for at least a month.

FRANCE

Ben Lyttleton of Sports Illustrated tell us how in the world Brest are the #1 team in Ligue 1.

dN

Alou Diarra, the captain of Bordeaux, has been given a 6 game suspension for pushing a referee during an argument over a call. There is no great video footage, but you can kinda see it here.

dN

Coupe de la Ligue Quarterfinals:

-Tue Nov 9

Auxerre 2-0 St Etienne

-Wed Nov 10

Valenciennes v Paris St Germain

Montpellier v Lille

Marsielle v Monaco

SOUTH AMERICA

Tim Vickery of the BBC on the resignation of Chile national team coach Marcelo Bielsa.

ARGENTINA

In the week before El Clasico with Boca Juniors, River Plate has fired head coach Angel Cappa. Wow.

ENDERS

I got an email today from former President Bill Clinton in which he tells me all about his love of soccer.

But it turns out that its actually an email asking for my money to help pay for the bid.

Are you serious?

My Fellow Soccer Fans,

In 1994, I was the first president to watch a World Cup game on American soil.

I'll never forget that day: the beauty of the Game, the roar of the crowd, and the power of soccer to unite people of such diverse backgrounds and beliefs.

These past six months I've worked to bring this incredible experience to millions more Americans as the honorary chairman of the USA Bid Committee. I am proud that my voice has joined yours to tell the entire world that the Game Is In US.

With FIFA's decision less than a month away, we're using every resource available to show we're fully committed to bringing the World Cup to our country -- and our best resource is fans like you.

Will you support this effort with a contribution to the Bid Committee? Any amount you can afford will make a real difference.

From Harlem to Harare, soccer is played in every corner of the planet, but perhaps no nation embodies the spirit of the Game quite like the United States. We are a rich melting pot of cultures and ethnicities; every qualifying nation will feel as though they're playing a home game on our pitch.

Our diversity, our dedication, our unique blend of individual achievement and cooperation -- these traits define both our nation and the game of soccer. A FIFA World Cup™ in the United States in 2022 would be a perfect fit.

We have just 23 days to make this dream a reality. Now is not the time to hold back; now is the time to push on through the final whistle and send FIFA a clear message: The Game Is In US.

Help us send this message as powerfully as we possibly can. Contribute to the Bid today.

Thank you so much for being part of our Bid.

Sincerely,

Bill Clinton
