It's Day 88 of 2017.

USA MEN'S NATIONAL TEAM

4 points from 2 games. You happy? I'm happy. I was fearing the worst and getting 1 point. So this is waaaaaaay better.

World Cup qualifying schedule/results:

-Tue Mar 28

Panama 1-1 USA - Pan goal by Gabriel Gomez. USA goal by Clint Dempsey.

Estadio Rommel Fernandez, Panama City

My USA Notes:

Game highlights [VIDEO]

A typically brutal CONCACAF Central America road game for the USA. Hot and humid, bumpy field, physical opponent, lenient ref - all leading to a pretty ugly game.

Another statement from Dempsey with a goal to put the USA in front.

Pulisic did a masterful job to set up Dempsey - wow! That kid is something. Never ceases to amaze. Chased down Felipe Baloy, took the ball from him, then ran at goal drawing Roman Torres who he avoided, and finally slid a pass perfectly to Dempsey who swept the ball into the net. Magnificent.

A real mess in front of goal let Panama back into the game - there is no excuse for that poor defense - bust out the Iron Skillets - Villafana, Ream, Bradley and Jones all went after the ball, none of them got to it, then they turned their back on the play and let Panama pounce.

For all the players the USA was missing I thought they held their own quite well - and the defense, besides that set piece goal, bent but did not break, even providing some great play at times.

Gonzalez in particular had a strong game for the USA for the first time in a long time. I really hope that bumps his confidence up.

The USA attack was very weak. Altidore hardly even touched the ball.

Bradley sat deep, but Jermaine Jones in front of him did not connect into the attacking third much at all. Poor game from Jones.

Pulisic got the crap kicked out of him by Panama, but he, and his teammates, never retaliated. Great job by them for not losing their cool.

I was excited to see Acosta get a few minutes out there. He needs to start in place of Jones in the next game at home v T+T.

2 huge saves by Howard, one in each half. Yes one was shot straight at him but it was a rocket, the other he got down low and smothered. The man.

Villafana has mostly held his ground for 2 games in a row. Great for him.

Good: Gonzalez, Howard, Pulisic, Dempsey

So-so: Bradley, Villafana, Nagbe

Bad: Zusi, Jones, Ream, Altidore

Overall I would say that Panama was the better team on the night. But a tie was about right.

Line Up Of The Missing. Consider this team picked from players that were injured or unavailable:

Guzan

Lichaj, Brooks, Orozco, Yedlin

Johnson, Lletget, Cameron, Zardes

Wood, Morris

Post-game Media:

Match report. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

More notes and lots of quotes. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

Post game notes. By Grant Wahl for Sports Illustrated.

Post game notes. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Game review and analysis. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

Post game analysis, By Matt Doyle for MLS.

In other USMNT news - the final team for their group stage in the Gold Cup was established last night as Nicaragua beat Haiti 4-3 on aggregate.

dN

Yeeeeeee-ouch:

Yeouch! pic.twitter.com/lYHvDNeJe7

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) March 29, 2017

dN

Tempting: du Nord Music Mix Vol 117 (download + extract)

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Mike Petke is the new head coach of this weekend's opponent Real Salt Lake. For a very short time he was head coach of RSL's USL team Real Monarchs.

Will this be a boost to a team off to a poor start? Some people think RSL has the talent.

Patrick McLain who had been out due to a concussion is back training with the team. This puts them at near full strength. (Anor still out.)

Match Schedule/Results:

-Sat Apr 1

Minnesota v Sale Lake - 7pm CT on My29.

A recap of the players away on international duty:

Molino - started and went the full 90 earning a yellow as they lost at home 0-1 to Mexico in World Cup qualifying.

JVenegas - had returned to the Twin Cities for the birth of a child.

Calvo - on the bench as they went to Honduruas and came from behind to tie 1-1 in World Cup qualifying.

Schuller - again an unused sub as Finland tied 1-1 at Austria in a friendly.

dN

MLS

RBNY has signed Bradley Wright Phillips to a contract extension.

Week 5 Schedule/Results:

-Fri Mar 31

Toronto v Kansas City

Seattle v Atlanta

-Sat Apr 1

New York City v San Jose

Chicago v Montreal

Columbus v Orlando

DC v Philadelphia

Minnesota v Salt Lake

Houston v New York Red Bulls

Vancouver v LA

-Sun Apr 2

Portland v New England

dN

THE HEX - CONCACAF World Cup qualifying

Standings: (4 of 10 games played)

10 Mexico (+4)

7 Costa Rica (+4)

5 Panama (0)

-----

4 USA (+1)

-----

4 Honduras (-5)

3 T+T (-4)

Matchday 4 Schedule/Results:

-Tue Mar 28

Honduras 1-1 Costa Rica - Hon goal by Anthony Lozano. CR goal by Kendall Waston

T+T 0-1 Mexico - Mex goal by Diego Reyes

Panama 1-1 USA

Matchday 5 + 6 will be played on Thu Jun 8 + Fri Jun 9, and Sun Jun 11 + Mon Jun 12.

dN

CONMEBOL WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Standings:

(14 of 18 games played)

33 Brazil (+25)

24 Colombia (+3)

23 Uruguay (+9)

23 Chile (+5)

-----

22 Argentina (+1)

-----

20 Ecuador (+3)

18 Peru (-1)

18 Paraguay (-8)

10 Bolivia (-20)

6 Venezuela (-17)

Matchday 14 Schedule/Results:

-Tue Mar 28

Ecuador 0-2 Colombia

Brazil 3-0 Paraguay

Bolivia 2-0 Argentina

Peru 2-1 Uruguay

Chile 3-1 Venezuela

Matchday 15 + 16 will be played on Wed Aug 30, and Mon Sep 4.

dN

International football: 10 talking points from this weeks World Cup qualifying matches. From the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
