It's Day 138 of 2017.

The draw for the 4th Round of the US Open Cup was held today and Minnesota United will once again travel to Sporting Kansas City on Jun 14. Again. Damn. Booooo. Boring. Same old shit year after year.

By the way, if you think this was SKC v MU match was random, it wasn't. The draw is loaded. Check the only other two MLS v MLS matchups: NYC v RBNY and Portland v Seattle

A draw, yeah right.

dN

RIP Chris Cornell of Soundgarden and Audioslave who was found dead last night in a Detroit hotel room. Rock, drugs and suicide go way too hand in hand. Very sad. Story from Detroit Free Press.

I saw Soundgarden a few times in their early days. I wasn't a fan, but loved the guitars - Black Sabbath meets Black Flag!

dN

USMNT

DeAndre Yedlin has grown a lot during 3 some times very tough years in England. How did he flourish at newly promoted Newcastle? By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

Jozy Altidore yearns for a shot at WC Russia 2018. By Martin Rogers for USA Today.

Plus he has started a pretty interesting project for young players without a lot of money.

dN

LIGA MX Clausura Liguilla Semifinals Schedule/Results

The Tijuana and Tigres coaches have words for each other. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

Leg 1

-Thu May 18

Toluca(4) v Guadalajara(3) - 7:30pm on Uni Deportes

Tigres(7) v Tijuana(1) - 9:30pm on Uni Deportes

Leg 2

-Sun May 21

Guadalajara(3) v Toluca(4)

Tijuana(1) v Tigres(7)

dN

US Open Cup 2nd Round results from last night.

The 3rd Round takes place on Wed May 31.

The 4th Round is when the MLS teams join.

Some big upsets last night:

New York Cosmos lost to Reading United

Richmond Kickers lost to Christos

Indy Eleven lost to Michigan Bucks

Pittsburgh Riverhounds lost to Chicago FC United

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

I guess you could call the Minnesota roster a bunch of misfits. But don't call them quitters. By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

Two LA boys grew up watching the Galaxy and now will get their chance to play against them - Ibarra y Ramirez. By Wes Burdine for MLS.

Minnesota's game in Atlanta that was scheduled for Aug 13 has been moved to Tue Oct 3 at 6:00pm CT

LA has 2 wins and 2 losses in their 4 road games this season. And currently on a run of 1 win preceded by 2 draws.

Two observations from game in Toronto: 1) people need to stop talking about playoffs and 2) the teams tactics are firming up. By Alex Schieferdecker for Fity Five One.

Next Schedule/Results:

-Sun May 21

Minnesota v LA - 4:00pm CT on ESPN.

dN

MLS

Nenmana Nikolic of Chicago scored 2 more last night, giving him 10 for the season.

-I rarely get anything right, but I did pick him out before the season as my candidate for Newcomer of the Year.

And freakin Philly does it again. I am baffled. Hadn't won in all 8 games this year, and now won 2 in a row. And have 4 shutouts in a row too. Unreal.

And don't forget about Fafa Picault! Scoring goal. Oh yeah.

KC took the drills to Seattle, who look like they did last year under Sigi. Gerso got a hattrick for SKC.

RSL got a desperately needed win too.

Lets have a professional journalist break down last nights action for us. By Matt Doyle for MLS.

Week 12:

(16 games)

-Wed May 17

Philadelphia 2-0 Houston

Chicago 3-0 Colorado

Kansas City 3-0 Seattle

Salt Lake 2-1 New York City

San Jose 1-1 Orlando

-Fri May 19

New York Red Bulls v Toronto

-Sat May 20

Montreal v Portland

DC v Chicago - 3:00pm CT on Uni Mas

Seattle v Salt Lake

Atlanta v Houston

Philadelphia v Colorado

Vancouver v Kansas City

Dallas v San Jose

-Sun May 21

New England v Columbus

Minnesota v LA - 4:00pm CT on ESPN

Orlando v New York City - 6:00pm CT on FS1

dN

David Beckham and Co have made what some say is their final pitch to build a stadium for a MLS team in Miami. By Douglas Hanks and Martin Vassolo for the Miami Herald.

dN

Ancient: du Nord Music Mix Vol 124 (download + extract)

dN

An interview with probably the best Mixed Martial Arts fighter in the world - and you probably have never heard of him. Demetrious Johnson. And he is incredible. By Jon Wertheim for Sports Illustrated.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Manager David Wagner leads his Huddersfield team into the Championship promotion playoff Finals.

And they will be matched up against Danny Williams and Reading.

dN

English Championship division promotion playoffs:

Huddersfield Town will take on Reading for the last promotion to the Premier League.

2nd Leg

-Tue May 16

Reading 1-0 Fulham - Rea advance 2-1 on aggregate.

-Wed May 17

Sheffield Wednesday 1-1 Huddersfield - game ends tied 1-1 on aggregate, and Hud wins in Penalty Kick Shootout 4-3.

Final:

(Winner gets promoted to the Premier League, and there is an American on both sides.)

Sun May 28

Reading v Huddersfield Town

dN

Starting next season the English FA will give out retroactive suspensions for simulation.

dN

La Liga Title Race - Final games:

(1 game left)

90 Real Madrid

87 Barcelona (Barca has tiebreaker of head-to-head points 4-1)

-Wed May 17

Celta de Vigo 1-4 Real Madrid

-Sun May 21

Barcelona v Eibar

Malaga v Real Madrid

dN

Serie A Title Race - Final games:

(2 games left)

85 Juventus (+46)

81 Roma (+49)

80 Napoli (+50)

-Sat May 20

Chievo v Roma

Napoli v Fiorentina

-Sun May 21

Juventus v Crotone

-Sun May 28

Roma v Genoa

Bologna v Juventus

Sampdoria v Napoli

dN

Coppa Italia Final:

Juve has won the Italian Cup for the 3rd year in a row. I am sick of congratulating them. Hahahahahaha. No, huge congrats to them.

-Wed May 17

Juventus 2-0 Lazio

On the utter dominance of Juventus in Italy. Again. By Paolo Bandini for the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
