It's Day 5 of 2017.

Homecoming... @christianramirez_21 & @migue14ibarra return to #MNUFC. More info at MNUFC.com.

A photo posted by Minnesota United FC (@mnufc) on Jan 5, 2017 at 9:27am PST

Batman + Superman are back together in Minnesota again! Today MN United announced the return of Miguel Ibarra and the new contract for Christian Ramirez.

This is a big big deal for long time supporters of this club, and more important for spirit and atmosphere then even play on the field.

Ibarra was sharp on all fronts - suit, bow tie, shoes, hair. His Spanish was lightning fast. His English had a whole new Mexican accent. Was told his fitness is off the charts. He is ready to go. Like, now!

And Ramirez looked very happy to be married and get the deal done with the team during his honeymoon! Haha.

Some more words on today's announcement and quotes from the 2 players. By Brian Quarstad of Fifty Five One.

dN

USMNT January Camp Roster:

G - David Bingham, Stefan Frei, Bill Hamid, Nick Rimando, Luis Robles

D - DaMarcus Beasley, Steve Birnbaum, Brad Evans, Greg Garza, Matt Hedges, Taylor Kemp, Chad Marshall, Keegan Rosenberry, Walker Zimmerman, Graham Zusi

M - Kellyn Acosta, Alejandro Bedoya, Michael Bradley, Benny Feilhaber, Jermaine Jones, Sacha Kljestan, Sebastian Lletget, Kekuta Manneh, Dax McCarty, Darlington Nagbe, Chris Pontius, Wil Trapp

F - Juan Agudelo, Jozy Altidore, Jordan Morris, Chris Wondolowski, Gyasi Zardes

Are there any players not on this list that you think should be?

I will fill in a couple obvious ones for you: Matt Besler had ankle surgery, and Clint Dempsey is still not cleared by doctors.

Many thought Christian Roldan from Seattle would get a look.

And for a team that is desperate for fullbacks its quite interesting that Arena did not give Robbie Rogers a shot.

Analysis of this roster and the training camp/friendlies via two of my favorites guys named Brian:

Scriaretta

Straus

My 1 negative about this roster is that more and more these days International soccer is about young players making the difference. They are usually faster, stronger and more willing to take big risks where a veteran player might take the safer route. Would have liked to see more young guys here to gain experience.

dN

San Jose Earthquakes has hired Jesse Fioranelli as their new General Manager. He has a lot of experience in his native Italy as a development and analytic manager at both Lazio and Roma.

The Bird Is The Word
