-U20 World Youth Championship - the group stage is over! Let the real games begin.

FIFA names the 14 best players from the 1st stage: Fourteen nuggets in Netherlands

Its pretty damn cool that our boys won the toughest group, over Argentina and Germany. They also did not concede a goal.

The best players for the USA so far have been: Marvell Wynne, Benny Feilhaber, Freddy Adu, Chad Barrett, and Nathan Sturgis.

So here are the next two rounds of matches:

Tue June 21

USA v Italy

Morocco v Japan

Brazil v Syria

China v Germany

Wed June 22

Nigeria v Ukraine

Netherlands v China

Columbia v Argentina

Spain v Turkey

Fri June 24

USA-Ita v Mor-Jap

Bra-Syr v Chn-Ger

Sat June 25

Nig-Ukr v Net-Chl

Col-Arg v Spa-Tur

-Confederations Cup - Mexico took the legs out from under Brazil 1-0 yesterday once they stopped diving and cheap shotting (their specialty sometimes). Jared Borgetti scored with another of his trademark flying headers. Borgetti, keeper Oswaldo Sanchez, and winger Ramone Morales all played fantastic.

After the match, Brazil's coach announced that Ronaldo will return to the team in the coming months. They sure could have used his amazing talent yesterday. But that still won't help with the Roque Jr. problem. Wow, is that guy terrible or what?!?!?! He couldn't get a start in MLS even with a semi-famous name!

Other matches: Germany 3-0 Tunisia & Argentina 4-2 Australia. The final Sunday match was Greece 0-1 Japan.

-African World Cup Qualifying scores:

Sat June 18

Senegal 2-2 Togo

Zambia 2-1 Mali

Burkina Faso 2-0 Congo

South Africa 0-2 Ghana

Uganda 1-0 Cape Verde Islands

Gabon 3-0 Rwanda

Nigeria 1-1 Angola

Kenya 0-0 Morocco

Malawi 1-3 Botswana

Sun June 19

Liberia 0-2 Republic of Congo

Cameroon 1-0 Libya

Ivory Coast 2-0 Egypt

Algeria 2-2 Zimbabwe

-MLS Week 12 Scores:

Chicago 1-1 Kansas City

Metrostars 3-2 Columbus

DC United 2-0 New England

FC Dallas 1-0 Los Angeles

San Jose 3-0 Real Salt Lake

Chivas USA 1-3 Colorado

-I kept screaming for Colorado to get Jeff Cunningham onto the field more. He made a lot of substitution and scored almost every time. He got the start yesterday against the worst team in the history of MLS, Chivas USA, and only scored 3.

-David Stokes continues to be terrible.

-Preki!! - what else can I say!

-Who woulda guessed: DC's Josh Gros was a Marine! (I suppose the hair cut was a bit of a giveaway)

-Some great MLS goals this past weekend: Buddle, Cornell Glen, two from Razov, Preki, Jaime Moreno!, Kelly Gray, Mark Chung, & Cunninghams 3! Hit this page to see em all

-Real Salt Lake as finally made it official and joined their fellow newcomers Chivas in the "We Are An Awful Team" category.

-You should listen to the full game highlights (or better yet the full game) for San Jose cuz they have the mighty Ray Hudson on the microphone giving us some fantastic stuff. He calls Kelly Gray an Intimidating Torpedo, and Wade Barrett The Elastic Man. I love Ray.

-Jamie Watson needs to get more playing time for Real Salt Lake. The Old Trio of Washington, Kries, and Mathis is not the answer.

-Brian Ching played and scored for the San Jose reserves this weekend. Looks like he is almost ready to return.

-Our old boy Jonesy drinks more of the Purple Kool-Aid and again climbs aboard the good ship MLS. MLS Owners Face Thinking Cap Time. "They want ways to pump up product, maybe even bending salary rules to get marquee players." By Grahame L. Jones, Los Angeles Times Saturday June 18

-And lastly, Totti got married - straight women and gay men commence weeping.
