It's Day 100 of 2017.

A unified bid to welcome the world to 🇨🇦🇺🇸🇲🇽 in 2026!

More: https://t.co/Ua6lVOvlWw pic.twitter.com/wlrjksDroC

— U.S. Soccer (@ussoccer) April 10, 2017

The USA, Mexico and Canada today announced that they will bid together to host the 2026 World Cup.

The reason the 3 countries are bidding together is to promote Social positivity and show Unity between the 3 countries

Quarterfinals onward ALL in USA.

No word on opening game yet.

60 games in USA

10 games in Mexico

10 games in Canada

Mexico deserves a lot than that.

FIFA decides if USA, Mex and Can all qualify automatically.

Decisions on cities and stadiums are made with FIFA after winning bid is announced.

FIFA still has announced details on bids and when a decision will be made as to who would host.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Match Schedule/Results:

-Sat Apr 8

Dallas 2-0 Minnesota - Dal goals by Javier Morales + Michael Barrios.

Loons fall in Dallas

Doesn't feel like a loss tho #FCDvMIN Recap » https://t.co/cqf5eBFHEP pic.twitter.com/wGV6KGhuRi

— Minnesota United FC (@MNUFC) April 9, 2017

Actually it felt exactly like a loss. Completely. Without a doubt. Like a shut out loss.

My MNUFC Notes:

Game highlights [VIDEO] (very weirdly edited.)

This was the 1st time this season the Loons have not scored a goal. Not good. These trends tend to build on themselves.

Dallas didn't score until the 43rd min due to their own ineptitude - they had 3 golden chances and couldn't hit the target.

Minn deserved at least 1 goal for the effort. A 2-1 game at any time in the 2nd half could have changed the whole thing.

Dallas back up keeper Gonzalez played great.

Adrian Heath: "We were waiting for [Dallas] to really score a goal before we started to play again.”

Actually Dallas scored two goals, and then Heath changed his lineup to a more attacking set up and then Dallas sat back and absorbed pressure. Sorry, but that's not progress.

I don't understand why Warner and Cronin are in the lineup together. They are the same player - so you might as well play w/ 10 men.

There was no one to connect offense to defense.

Brought on Ibson AFTER falling behind 2-0.

No one in offense to hold the ball and bring others into the play.

Dallas would push 7-8 players into the attack.

Minnesota would push 4 players into the attack.

The 2nd half started with Minn adding fullbacks and an extra midfielder into attack = to 7 men. Looked dangerous, but immediately Dallas hit them on the counterattack for 2nd goal. So naive.

The Iron Skillet needs to show up at training this week - Dallas 1st goal comes on re-circulation set piece with Zimmerman left unmarked at back post to head down a cross! Then Calvo (again) goes for finese to clear a ball instead of brute force and gets beat by Old Man Javier Morales who chips keeper

Lack of concentration really hurts Minn - giving up 1 goal in last minutes of 1st half, and a 2nd just minutes into 2nd half.

Why did the MN players keep floating in crosses/set pieces against a team with 2 giant centerbacks who are good in the air?

What was the reason for not using all 3 subs when you have to get a goal desperately?

If you are not adding that final attackers then why not push Kallman or Calvo up top in dying minutes to battle for headers - Ramirez, JVenegas, Dunladi etc are not winning the headers any time soon.

Miguel Ibarra was left on the bench again. He has to be frustrated. He is a good defender too.

Dallas had a mediocre game - Acosta and Urruti were invisible. And both Barrios and Lamah wasted golden chances.

The opportunity was there for Minn to get something from this game.

Cronin's turnover in the last 1/3 contributed to that 2nd goal.

Terrible marking on the 1st goal lead to Walker Zimmerman being unmarked at the back post.

Kadrii again was not helping out on defense and it hampered Burch just like it had hampered Davis in previous games.

Kallman again was impressive - for the 4th game in a row. Tremendous.

Our friend Wes Burdine reminded me that several years ago Manny told us that Kallman was good - we chuckled then. We were morons.

Shuttleworth made a big save in 1st half to keep team in game.

Somehow giving up 2 goals and not scoring any is being called an "improvement." We are now Minnesota Bizarro United.

Game media:

Match report. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Post-game notes. By Ryan.

The coach sees improvement. By Ryan.

Match report. By the Pioneer Press.

Match report. By Kaleb Olson for Fifty Five One.

Next Match Schedule:

-Sat Apr 15

Houston Dynamo v Minnesota - 7:30pm CT on My29 in Twin Cities.

MNUFC has sent centerback Joe Greenspan out on loan to Pittsburgh Riverhounds in USL. He is expected to return to MNUFC for summer, esp during Gold Cup time.

dN

MLS

My MLS Notes:

ONE, yes ONE road team won this weekend, in 11 games. And TWO road teams got a tie. That makes THREE (out of 11 or 27%) road teams got points. That is serious how big the difference is between home team and road team. Generally speaking. Portland got the win, and Atlanta and Seattle got the tie.

After 6 weeks Montreal and Philadelphia are still winless! While Toronto, Seattle, Salt Lake, Colorado, Vancouver and Minnesota each only have 1 win.

Those SKC (powder blue with white thin vertical stripes shirts, white shorts, and powder blue socks) and Colorado (bright yellow shirts with royal blue sleeves, royal blue shorts, and bright yellow socks) uniforms were looking sharp on Sunday. (Someone has pointed out to me on Twitter that the 2 teams looked like Arsenal v Manchester City.)

13 game winless streak is over! Real Salt Lake got their 1st win of the season in a genuine snow storm!

Yura Snow Goal (RSL) - Via Real Salt Lake https://t.co/ZhzQkm6kar pic.twitter.com/pSMP7iUCNh

— Panseh Tsewole (@PansehTsewole1) April 9, 2017

Apparently all it took for RSL was a new coach. Go figure. It was Mike Petke's debut as head coach and they rolled 3-0 over Vancouver. Nice start Mike.

Media Roundup:

The analytic breakdown of the games in Week 6. By Matthew Doyle for MLS.

Weekend recap of the highest of the highlights. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

Nine points of interest from Week 6. By Caitlin Murray for FOX Sports.

Yeah, weather can be a big factor in MLS. By Matt Pentz for the Guardian.

Did an illegal video review of a play bring about a red card for Atlanta? By Scott French for Four Four Two.

Week 6 Schedule/Results:

-Fri Apr 7

LA Galaxy 2-0 Montreal Impact

-Sat Apr 8

Chicago Fire 1-0 Columbus Crew

New England Revolution 2-0 Houston Dynamo

DC United 2-1 New York City

Philadelphia Union 1-3 Portland Timbers

Toronto 2-2 Atlanta United

Dallas 2-0 Minnesota United

Real Salt Lake 3-0 Vancouver Whitecaps

San Jose Earthquakes 1-1 Seattle Sounders

-Sun Apr 9

Orlando City 1-0 New York Red Bulls

Sporting Kansas City 3-1 Colorado Rapids

28 goals in 11 games = 2.55 goals per game. (A minimum of 3 is preferred.)

dN

The most prestigious youth soccer tournament in America is going on right now: the Dallas Cup.

The top standard of play is in the U18/19 Super Group.

On Sunday at the Cotton Bowl in Dallas they played a triple header that drew total attendance of 19,417!

The games were: Dallas v Everton, Tigres v Eintracht, and Chivas v Man United

This big crowd gives me an indication of what FC Dallas senior team could be drawing if they were in the city instead of out in the middle of nowhere. (Its 30 miles from the city to their stadium in Frisco. On a toll road.)

dN

USMNT

2 new friendlies will be announced soon:

-Sat Jun 3

USA v Venezuela - Rio Tinto Stadium, Sandy UT

-Sat Jul 1

USA v Ghana - Rentschler Field, East Harford CT

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

John Brooks got the game winning goal as Hertha (5th place) betat Augsburg 2-0.

Mix Diskerud scored the game winning goal for Goteborg, starting and going the distance in a 0-2 victory over Sirius.

Eric Lichaj scored the game winner and went the distance as usual for Nottingham Forest at right fullback/wingback. They won 2-0 v Huddersfield Town.

dN

The Terrence Boyd + Torstan Frings + Darmstadt Tracker:

Results - Sun Apr 9 Lost 3-2 at Ingolstadt

Note - Boyd was not in uniform for this one

Standings - With 6 games left they are in Last place, 14 points below relegation playoff and 15 points from safety

Up Next - Sun Apr 16 v Schalke

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Several Americans + Tijuana Tracker:

Results - Fri Apr 7 Tied 0-0 v America

Note - Orozco, Corona and Arriola all started! By Orozco was we reinjured after just 24 minutes. Corona went the full 90. Arriola went 74.

Standings - with 5 games left they are in 4th place, 6 points behind 1st

Up Next - Wed Apr 12 at Queretaro

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Tue Apr 11

Juventus v Barcelona - 1:45pm CT on FS1

Dortmund v Monaco - 1:45pm CT on FS2

-Wed Apr 12

Bayern v Real Madrid - 1:45pm CT on FS1

Atletico v Leicester - 1:45pm CT on FS2

dN

BIG WEEKEND GAMES IN EUROPE:

-Sat Apr 8

Bayern 4-1 Dortmund - Yeah, it wasn't close, remain #1 + #4

Real Madrid 1-1 Atletico Madrid - still #1 + #3

-Sun Apr 9

Lazio 0-3 Napoli - stay as #4 + #3

dN

Premier League: 10 talking points from this weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

dN

Artist Cecelia Gimenez gives her insight on the beautiful Cristiano Ronaldo bust in the Madeira Spanish airport. [VIDEO]

The Bird Is The Word
