It's Day 171 of 2017.

Rest In Power Tony DiCicco

An American soccer pioneer, innovator, leader and legend.

dN

My latest for 1500ESPN:

Minnesota United. USA Men's National Team. 12 Days. 4 Games. 3 Competitions. 2 Countries

dN

Minnesota United

Marc Burch injury update: out 2-3 months after having hernia surgery.

MU may need another left fullback. Add that to the extensive shopping list.

Portland comes to Minnesota on Wed with 4 consecutive road losses, and 5 without a win.

Since late April Minn has won and lost every other game at home, with the pattern saying they lose on Wednesday and win on Saturday.

Overall the Loon have played 7 games at home, winning 4 and losing 3.

Timbers centerback Liam Ridgewell is out with an injury. This team's defense can be beaten.

Post-weekend preview for Minn game from Portland. By Jamie Goldberg for the Oregonian.

Schedule:

-Wed Jun 21

Minnesota v Portland - 7:00pm CT on My29.

-Sat Jun 24

Minnesota v Vancouver - 7:00pm CT on My29.

dN

MLS

The biggest offseason signing for Columbus was Ghanaian centerback Jonathan Mensah, and it hasn't gone well for him or them. He is hoping to turn it around starting with the Ghana friendly v the USMNT on Jul 1. By Michael Oti Adjei for ESPNFC.

The Chicago Fire are attempting a return to respectability, but it hasn't been easy. By Paul Tenorio for Four Four Two.

Week 17 schedule/results:

(15 games)

-Wed Jun 21

DC v Atlanta

Minnesota v Portland

Colorado v LA

Seattle v Orlando

-Fri Jun 23

Toronto v New England

Houston v Dallas

-Sat Jun 24

New York RB v New York City

Atlanta v Colorado

Philadelphia v DC

Columbus v Montreal

Minnesota v Vancouver

Chicago v Orlando

LA v Kansas City

San Jose v Salt Lake

-Sun Jun 25

Portland v Seattle

dN

David Villa of New York City named MLS Player Of The Week

Vincenzo Rennella of Miami named NASL Player Of The Week

dN

Canadian Championship

Final Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Wed Jun 21

Montreal v Toronto

2nd Leg

-Tue Jun 27

Toronto v Montreal

dN

Dani Alves describes going back to Barcelona with his new team Juventus, and how much Barca is on his mind and in his blood. In his own words for the Players Tribune.

The Bird Is The Word
