This is a Special Edition soccer news blast during this holiday week. I have been off enjoying regular life, cut had to at least lay all of this good stuff on you once this week. We will be back to regular service next week. But for now here is some news, in pretty much random order - no headlines or sections:

dN

du Nord at the Controls - Tue Dec 27, 2011 - My Dad's birthday - new music mix at Spotify.

dN

Everton sits down to do a video interview with Landon Donovan upon his return to the club.

MLS SuperDraft will be held on Thu Jan 12 in Kansas City. I will be there! Will you?

Seattle has signed 28 year old Swedish right fullback Adam Johansson from IFK Gothenburg.

-Thank to Henrik for the heads up.

23 year old danish midfielder Christian Sivebaek has been linked to the Seattle Sounders. He is from FC Midtjylland in Denmark.

San Jose has signed 29 year old Honduran centerback Victor Bernardez from Anderlecht in Belgium.

Joey Barton's wife gave birth to a son today - name: Cassius

Charlie Davies will be back in training with Sochaux come Jan 4.

Isaac Acuna is out of Club America and into the 2nd division at Merida.

Freddy Adu is doing some off-season training in Spain at Rayo Vallecano.

The KNVB Beker cup match between Ajax and AZ which was called off after a fan attacked the AZ goalkeeper on the field will be replayed on Jan 19 in an empty stadium.

Luis Bueno of Press Enterprise reports that Colombians now account for the "highest number of foreign-born players on MLS rosters."

Bolton has supposedly offered $3.9M for Tim Ream. Nice. Now try again. This time like you mean it.

Waking the Red post their All Time Toronto FC Worst XI. This is one hell of a list!

-Even the bench is grotesquely impressive.

Frank Dell'Apa of the Globe talks to new Revs head coach Jay Heaps who has this to say about one of their new additions to the roster: "I am particularly excited about Clyde Simms."

-Oof. Lets hope it gets a lot better from here for Mr Heaps.

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze reflects on 2011.

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN looks ahead to 2012 for US Soccer.

Luke Wileman of TSN reviews 2011 in MLS in Canada.

Celtic beats Rangers 1-0 and takes over lead in SPL.

-How did the Americans on Rangers do?

Alejandro Bedoya - did not suit up for the game.

Carlos Bocanegra - went the distance getting a yellow card.

Mo Edu - came on as a sub in the 78th min.

Houston acquired midfielder Nathan Sturgis from Toronto in exchange for a pick in the 2014 SuperDraft. Sturgis has always shown tons of promise but injuries have limited his playing time, and he has bounced from team to team around MLS.

MLSsoccer.com talks to Philadelphia keeper Zac MacMath about his recent training stint at Everton.

Mexican 2nd division team Indios of Juarez, announced they'll be dissolving due to financial problems.

-Wow, you have to imagine that the horrible crime of the drug war in that city has taken a toll on ticket sales and possible sponsorships.

Tom Marshall of MLSsoccer.com talks to Victor Garza about a potentially big 2012 at Tigres.

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated with his best and worst, high and low, weird and wonderful of soccer in the year 2011.

Paris Saint-Germain has fired head coach Antoine Kombouare and hired former AC Milan and Chelsea boss Carlo Ancelotti as its new head coach.

Thierry Henry is all set to re-join Arsenal on a short term loan prior to the next MLS season in March.

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated looks the potential USA Olympic team.

NBA great Kevin Garnett has bought a stake in Roma.

The MLS Combine for potential draft picks to show off their skills will take place Jan 7-11 at Central Broward Park in Fort Lauderdale FL.

Trinidad & Tobago Newsday with the story of Jack Warner claiming he was personally given the TV rights to the 1998 World Cup in T&T for $1 in exchange for helping Sepp Blatter remain in charge of FIFA.

German striker Gerald Asamoah is telling people that he is headed to an unnamed team in MLS.

Russell Berrisford of the Vancouver Sun gives us a short list of what the Whitecaps need to accomplish in 2012.

Brian Straus of Sporting News with his best of 2011 of soccer in America.

Soccer America tells us about the 5 players who have signed special Generation Adidas contracts with MLS after leaving college early, or skipped college all together. Will there be more before the Superdraft on Jan 12?

Goalkeeper Diego Restrepo has left America de Cali in Colombia to sign with Tachira in Venezuela.
