Happy Thursday, everyone. Joe the Curmudgeon here, holding down the fort today as Dear Leader El Brucio is in Kansas City for the MLS SuperDraft and probably cleaning Oklahoma Joe's out of every last scrap of meat... Just a bit of news for today...

MLS SUPERDRAFT

...And with the First Pick in the 2012 MLS SuperDraft, Impact Montréal select Andrew Wenger D/F from Duke. Congrats Andrew as well as all the Draftees! Expect a full rundown from Bruce as soon as he wipes the BBQ sauce from his ginormous beard.

Andrew Wenger (via PhillySoccerPage.net)

You can view the MLS SuperDraft Tracker and see who your team selected...

dN

Kenny FrankenCooper dealt to NYRB

Minutes before the MLS SuperDraft started, news was broken by 'Designated Player' and FiF, Ives Galarcep for Fox Soccer News that Portland Timbers have sent Kenny Cooper to the New York Red Bulls for a 2013 1st round draft pick and if Cooper remains a Red Bull after 2012, allocation money. According to Ives, this leaves little room at forward for USMNT F Juan 'in a million' Agudelo, who is expected to find employ outside of MLS. More on this as it develops.

dN

Robbie Keane to Aston Villa in loan deal

LA Galaxy forward is the latest MLS player to find a short-term loan deal, moving to Aston Villa for a few months. This will help the Ireland international star stay fit in advance of the European Championships. Keane joins fellow MLS stars in loans to the EPL: Galaxy teammate Landon Donovan (Everton) and NYRB's Thierry Henry (Arsenal). He may even play Saturday against Donovan's Everton side. Henry, meanwhile, is said to have amazed his Arsenal teammates with his training regimen. Gotta be tough to play in MLS, kiddies.

dN

Tottenham to wear Under Armour kit

Though there was some news last spring about Tottenham moving their kit allegiance to Under Armour, today a Press Release shows the deal is between UA and Spurs is complete and will commence with the 2012/2013 season. By the way, Tottenham are far up the English Premiership table, sitting easily at number 3 currently with 45 points, tied on points with Man U, but behind on Goal differential. Can you dig it, Spurs fans?

---

Cheers,

Joe
