HERE IT IS!

du Nord Futbol 2015 MLS Best XI

G: Bill Hamid

FB: Tony Beltran + Kemar Lawrence

CB: Damien Perrinelle + Laurent Ciman

M: Ethan Finlay, Dax McCarty, Matias Laba + Fabian Castillo

F: Kei Kamara + Sebastian Giovinco

My team will beat your team every time!

dN

MLS Cup Playoffs

-The Semifinals on Sunday.

1st Leg Schedule

Sun Nov 22

CC v NYRB - 4:00pm CT on ESPN

PT v D - 6:30pm CT on FS1

-2nd Leg matches on Sun Nov 29

-Final on Sun Dec 6

Luis Robles of New York Red Bulls has been named MLS Goalkeeper Of The Year.

In looking at MLS expansion teams, I think their biggest weakness is always defense. I suggest Minnesota United focus on a strong defense first.

Sporting Kansas City's Sporting Park stadium has been renamed Children's Mercy Park.

Dallas relies on its academy to advance the future of the club. By Rick Gosselin of Sports Day DFW.

dN

Year end review of USMNT. By Graham Parker of the Guardian.

A full 2015 year-long tally of all the USMNT player game ratings from Soccer America.

dN

Canadian head coach Benito Floro. “We trust in ourselves that winning every game is possible.”

-Clearly drunk!

-Thanks Paul.

dN

Sat Nov 12 at 11:15am CT

Real Madrid v Barcelona

-See you at the Nomad in Minneapolis

dN

On Monday Colombian Football Federation president Luis Bedoya resigned due to "personal reasons." Local authorities are said to be investigating Bedoya's bank records in connection to the FIFA scandal though. And some reports say he is already in the United States. Then on Tuesday Sergio Jadue president of the Chilean Football Federation turned himself in to USA authorities after having his office raided by Chilean police last week in connection to the FIFA investigations.

-Both are executive committee members of CONMEBOL, with Bedoya as the group's president.

-Neither was among those initially sought by US officials in the world football probe, but they appear to be the next people to go under the microscope.

dN

Matches in France will be played this weekend, but only season ticket holders will be allowed in the stands. No single game tickets and no away fans.

dN

Supposedly France and Arsenal player Matthieu Flamini is partners in a company that has discovered a way to mass produce an acid that can replace oil. So why are we reading about it in the English trash tabloid The Sun? Instinct tells me that something is missing from this story. Stay tuned.

dN

A live Boiler Room set by SUNNO))). Bring the noise. Thanks to Joe J for the heads up.

dN

A very somber Facebook page for the band Eagles of Death Metal.

dN

The 10 stadiums to house the Copa Centenario next summer:

CenturyLink Field - Seattle

Citrus Bowl - Orlando

Gillette Stadium - Foxborough

Levi's Stadium - Santa Clara

Lincoln Financial Field - Philadelphia

MetLife Stadium - East Rutherford

NRG Stadium - Houston

Rose Bowl - Pasadena

Soldier Field - Chicago

University of Phoenix Stadium - Glendale

-Its too bad that half of these stadiums do not have real grass. Actually its kinda embarrassing.

The Bird Is The Word
