This an update to the EPL relegation post from a few days ago.

(see newly added reader notes below)

It's the last chance at glory for the bottom 4 teams in the EPL.

Who do you want to stay in the Premiership among the four teams battling for the last spot in the last week of the season?

Norwich 33 points (at Fulham)

Southampton 32 points (v Man U)

Crystal Palace 32 points (at Charlton)

West Brom 31 points (v Portsmouth)

(all matches on Sunday May 15)

One stays up & the other three go down.

Lemme know.....

Personally, I would prefer Norwich or CP, cuz they both play fun attacking soccer. Southampton just doesn't seem to have it, and West Brom plays that painful defensive crap. To make it worse, West Brom has several exciting attackers that their coach Brian Robson rarely puts on the field.

As an example, two weeks ago WB had Arsenal by the short and curly's late in the match at 0-0. West Brom had a chance to bring on three attackers to go for the jugular, but Robson stuck with his mudders. And of course the Arse got a game winner, so at around the 85th minute Robson puts his three gamers on the field together and they almost pull off the draw. Why were they not in the game 15 to 20 minutes earlier??? They deserve to go down just cuz of that.

votes so far:

Zathras said...

Gotta say it looks bad for Southampton.

Besides them, it'd be nice for both Norwich and Ipswich to be in the Premier League--I'm all for more heated derbies, and it's really a toss up between Palace and West Brom.

Kevin-- said...

Go Canaries!!! I definitely like the fact that they've battled back and more or less hold their fate in the hands.

Eric PZ said...

Please let it be the Budgie Filth from Norfolk going down.

added 5-12 at 2:21pm

Bill said...

Go eagles! I don't have a great reason, other than I went to a game at Selhurst Park in 2002. That's my only real connection to any of the four teams.

Plus, they try to play attractive football and I like Michael Hughes as a player. He tends to leave his heart on the pitch.
