Tweet me: dunord

dN

Over 30,000 tickets have been sold for USA v Honduras World Cup qualifier on Sat Jun 6 at Soldier Field in Chicago. (I will be there, will you?)

You make the call: How many are for USA? How many are for Honduras?

dN

Jeffrey Marcus of the New York Times addresses the real issue with MLS. The product on the field is not good enough yet to bring in all the soccer fans that are here in America. Those folks are not sold on the quality, and are busy watching TV of games from around the world. I agree completely, this is issue #1, 2, 3, 4 & 5 as far as I am concerned. MLS MUST open the purse strings.

But just so you all know, I Love MLS!

dN

MLS Week 6 Matches:

-Wed Apr 22

Toronto 1-0 Chivas - TFC goal by Amado Guevara on a scrappy play.

Venue: BMO Field, Toronto ON

Attendance: 19915

Video match highlights from MLSnet

-Thu Apr 23

Kansas City v New York - 7pm Central on ESPN2

Venue: Community America Ballpark, Kansas City KS

Couple of notes:

-Toronto pulled off a move last night that I would love to see more MLS do - They went with 3 forwards and an attacking midfielder to really push the pace. It wasn't exactly a success, but they did get the win, and the 3 points count for a lot. I would love to see a lot more of this around the league!

-Last nights loss was the first of the season for Chivas.

dN

Chivas USA has 9 people on the injured list, and I would say that those players would make a very good team:

G:

Dan Kennedy (right knee sprain)

D:

Bobby Burling (sports hernia surgery)

Ante Jazic (concussion)

Claudio Suarez (left calf strain)

Lawson Vaughn (left ankle surgery)

M:

Sasha Victorine (left knee surgery)

F:

Justin Braun (right knee sprain)

Maykel Galindo (sports hernia surgery)

Ante Razov (right ankle surgery)

dN

Grandpa is on the loose! DC United signs defender Avery John, and dispatches with forward Francis "Grandpa" Doe.

dN

US Open Cup Qualifier

-Wed Apr 22

DC 2-0 Dallas - DCU goals by Fred & Brandon Barklage.

Venue: RKF Stadium, Washington DC

Attendance: 5163

Pretty good video highlights from DC United themselves.

8 MLS teams are fighting for 2 spots in the regular rounds of the Open Cup. Last night was just the 2nd of 4 initial matches. Here is the bracket.

dN

Jonathan Wilson at the Guardian ponders the future of the hard-man midfielder who can also put a bulge in the old onion bag(TM).

dN

The great Simon Kuper at the Financial Times tells us that no matter how great the attacking stars are at Barcelona, it’s Xavi that makes their world go 'round.

dN

The rumor floating around Germany & Italy today is that Bayern Munich are lining up former Inter manager Roberto Mancini to take over from Juergen Klinsmann.

dN

CONCACAF Champions League Finals

First Leg

-Wed Apr 22

Cruz Azul 0-2 Atlante - Atl goals by Fernando Navarro & Christian Bermudez.

Second Leg

-Wed Apr 29

Atlante v Cruz Azul (2-0)

Huge road win for Atlante puts them in full control to win the inaugural CCL.

dN

Brian Quarstad of Inside Minnesota Soccer has a great article on the US Soccer Development Academy. The impetus of the article is that the two biggest academies in our state were rejected for entry by the USSFDA. But the people behind these two academies take the positives from the whole ordeal and move forward. There is some great insight here on youth soccer in America. The quotes are excellent.

dN

CONCACAF U17 World Cup Qualifying

All games played in Tijuana Mexico

Not to be outdone by the USA with their measly 5-0 win over Cuba on Monday, home team Mexico demolished Trinidad & Tobago 7-0 last night. Take that Gringos!

Standings (with goal difference):

Group A

3 USA +5

1 Honduras 0

1 Canada 0

0 Cuba -5

Group B

3 Mexico +7

1 Costa Rica 0

1 Guatemala 0

0 Trinidad & Tobago-7

Group Stage Matches:

-Tue Apr 21

Honduras 1-1 Canada

Cuba 0-5 USA

-Wed Apr 22

Guatemala 1-1 Costa Rica - Gua goal by Marvin Ceballos. CR goal by Joel Campbell.

Mexico 7-0 Trinidad & Tobago - Mex goals by Carlos Campos, Martin Galvan (3 - 1 via PK), Victor Manon, Luis Telles(PK) & Salvador Jasso.

-Thu Apr 23

Honduras v Cuba

USA v Canada

-Fri Apr 24

Costa Rica v Trinidad & Tobago

Mexico v Guatemala

-Sat Apr 25

Canada v Cuba

USA v Honduras

-Sun Apr 26

Trinidad & Tobago v Guatemala

Mexico v Costa Rica

dN

Aaaaaahhhhhh, the wee Irish laddy Rockem Sockem Royo Boyo Keano is back in the English football managerial ranks again, this time in charge of Ipswich Town. How long before he insults his players as a whole? I give him 6 months.

dN

Afshin Ghotbi who calls Southern California home has been named the new head coach of the Iranian national team. Here is what the English language Tehran newspaper Iran Daily had to say about his appointment (they didn't make a very big deal out of it):

Qotbi Iran’s New Boss

Afshin Qotbi is the new head coach of the Iranian football national team.

The statement was confirmed by the Iranian Football Federation’s (IFF) deputy head Mehdi Taj on Iranian television IRIB.

The appointment comes only a day after Mohammad Mayelikohan stepped down from the post, just two weeks after his appointment, without having helmed Iran for a single game.

The former analyst of Guus Hiddink and assistant coach to Dick Advocaat at the South Korean national team had already been one of the candidates to succeed Ali Daei, but Mayelikohan had initially gotten the nod.

Beside his job at the Korean national team, Qotbi had further jobs as scout, analyst and assistant coach for the USA’s national team, Korean club side Suwon Bluewings and MLS club LA Galaxy.

45-year-old Qotbi, who reportedly will bring two Dutch assistant coaches, had led Persepolis to the Iranian League championship in his first and sole season as head coach in 2008, before resigning after disagreements with the club’s management.

Iran is ahead of three crucial World Cup qualifiers against North Korea, the UAE and South Korea (June 6 - June 17). Afhsin Qotbi’s contract initially is only valid until July 17th.

Jack Bell of the New York Times does a Q & A with Ghotbi! What is really cool about this interview is that it was started before the Iran job was even open, and ends with him getting the job. Mr. Bell, your timing is impeccable.

dN

There is a list of great podcasts in the right hand column of this website. You really need to listen to them. All of them.

Do you have podcasts that you dig that I have not listed? Tell me about em.
