STARTERS

Two of the USA's brightest young prospects are headed for Germany. Justin Rodriquez of ESPN Soccernet reports that both Charles Renken and Joseph Gyau of the USA U17 Residency Program have signed with Hoffenheim. The German club also has a connection to the Vancouver Whitecaps (this is breaking news to me as well) and the players will see some of their time spent in BC at the residency program there as well as with the senior team in Germany.

dN

Jozy Altidore slammed home the game winner as Hull City advance in the Carling Cup 3-1 over Southend United. Fans on SkySports rated Jozy's performance a 9.4 out of 10, with his next highest teammate getting an 8.0!

dN

This is pretty ugly stuff: A Dallas fan from day 1 has written a letter to the team telling them to stuff it. He is tired of their 2nd or 3rd rate organization doing nothing at all to make a better team, or take care of their customers. He is right on the money. (A commenter took it all one step better and proposed ways to make the team better, not just complain.)

-Thanks to Tom at Pitch Invasion for the heads up!

dN

And in my opinion there are 2 more MLS team owners beyond the Hunts who are only paying lip service to their fans. Yeah, I am talking about you New England and Colorado. It's a joke.

dN

Kenny Cooper nabs his 2nd goal for 1860! Great start to his German career for Frankencooper.

dN

Twitter from Fulham Football Club (in Russia for Europa League game against Amkar Perm on Thursday): FFC has arrived in Perm to an interesting welcome party including fifteen grim reapers and a banner of coffins and AJ in a grave. Nice.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

The official web site of the tournament for all the up to date standings and game schedules.

dN

All 3 MLS teams play on Wednesday night this week:

Group Stage - Matchday 2

Some Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 26

DC United v Toluca - 7pm Central on FSC & Telefutura

Cruz Azul v Columbus Crew - 9pm Central on FSC & Telefutura

Arabe Unido v Houston Dynamo - broadcast delayed to Thursday at 7pm Central on FSC

MLS

Official League Web Site

dN

Paul Oberjurge is one of Landon Donovan's most trusted journalistic contacts and asked LD about the rumors of him going to Paris St Germain to which LD says "No comment." That says a lot. Great stuff here, including a good look at exactly what kind of team PSG is these days.

dN

Kheli Dube was named Player Of The Week. No surprise when you bag 3 goals.

dN

My friend Pat sent me an email today reminding me of the sheer idiocy of Chicago Fire centerback Dasan Robinson - last weekend he scored the winning goal in stoppage time then ripped off his shirt in celebration, but the shirt removal gets you a free Yellow Card, and seeing as he already had one card he saw Red and will miss next weeks game. Was it worth it buddy?? I bet your coach and teammates don't think so! Dasan Robinson = Big Dummy. If you ran the team, how much would you fine the player for that move?

dN

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze looks ahead to Saturday's big LA derby.

dN

Boulogne looks to be the team that will buy Chicago Fire centerback Bakary Soumare. But the deal is not done, so don't hold your breathe.

dN

The Washington Post blog Soccer Insider with the story on DC attacker Boyzzz Khumalo who had surgery on his wrist, and nearly found out too late that he got a nasty infection. What a story!

dN

The Post also has an article on the illness of DC coach Tom Soehn, which was NOT swine flu. It was also NOT llama flu, bird flu or goatfucker flu either.

dN

Steve Davis at MLSnet gives us a good look at the not so obvious things from the past weekends games. He focuses on the teams with strong defense.

dN

Dylan Butler at MLSnet gives a great rundown of all the players that MLS teams have signed during the summer transfer window, and there have been a lot of them. Very cool to see. And the window is not shut in some places yet.

dN

Michael C Lewis of the Salt Lake Tribune wonders if the end is near for Real Salt Lake this season.

-Lewis also reports that things between the team and forward Yura Movsisyan have gotten cloudy.

dN

John Molinaro of the CBC feels its time for referee's to put a stop to the "clutching, grabbing" that goes on during the games.

dN

Molinaro also writes about what Toronto FC needs to accomplish to make the playoffs this year, with quotes from coach Chris Cummins. The team currently sits on 30 points, and the first spot out of the playoffs.

dN

Ives Galarcep of ESPN Soccernet looks at the disaster that we know as Red Bull New York.

dN

Galarcep over at Soccer By Ives does a Q & A with Red Bulls honcho Erik Stover.

dN

And Metrofanatic gives us the eloquent: A Requiem for Osorio.

dN

Big Apple Soccer with words from New York's Kevin Goldthwaite who was excited about his team finally winning, but upset about getting a Red Card.

MLS TOP GOAL SCORERS

11 Conor Casey

10 Fredy Montero

10 Landon Donovan

10 Guillermo Barros Schelotto

9 Jeff Cunningham

9 Dwayne De Rosario

9 Juan Pablo Angel

USL FIRST DIVISION

Official Web Site

dN

Jack Bell of the New York Times gives us some info on the sale of the USL, and any involvement from MLS.

dN

Vancouver forward Charles Gbeke has been named the league's Player Of The Week.

dN

USL First Division Team of the Week:

G:

Hunter Gilstrap - Cleveland - Three saves in 1-0 win over Minnesota

D:

Jeremy Tolleson - Carolina - Led team in 0-0 draw at Rochester

Cedric Joqueviel - Montreal - Led team in 2-0 win over Austin

Takashi Hirano - Vancouver - Led team in draw and win

M:

Ian Fuller - Charleston - Goal in 1-1 draw against Vancouver

Nano Short - Rochester - Goal in 3-3 draw against Minnesota

Jason Hotchkin - Cleveland - Goal, assist in win and loss

Jeremiah Bass - Minnesota - Goal in 3-3 draw at Rochester

F:

Peter Byers - Montreal - Two goals in pair of wins

Charles Gbeke - Vancouver - Three goals in win and draw

Mandjou Keita - Portland - Two goals, assist in 3-1 win over Miami

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Ollie Irish of Premier League Tales writes about the end of the Steven Cohen era of soccer radio in America.

US SOCCER NEWS

Justin Rodriquez of ESPN Soccernet tracks down the members of the 2003 USA U17 squad to see where they are now. (I enjoy these articles)

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Yanks Abroad talks to Connor Tobin of Nybergsund in Norway's 2nd tier.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - Premiership

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance and got a big 1-3 win at Liverpool.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - started and played 74 minutes, scoring his teams only goal, but they lost at home 1-3 to Karlsruhe.

NETHERLANDS - Erste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the full match as they won 3-1 at home over Excelsior. After 4 games they are in 2nd place.

dN

Coming Up:

ENGLAND - League Cup 2nd round

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - Tue Aug 25 v Southend United

Jay DeMerit - Watford - Tue Aug 25 at Leeds

Mike Grella - Leeds - Tue Aug 25 v Watford

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - Tue Aug 25 v Swindon Town

Ian Joyce - Southend United - Tue Aug 25 at Hull City

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - Tue Aug 25 at Port Vale

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Tue Aug 25 v Millwall

EUROPA LEAGUE - Playoff Round 2nd Leg

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - Thu Aug 27 at Amkar Perm (3-1)

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - Thu Aug 27 at Valencia (0-3)

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Thu Aug 27 v Rapid Vienna (0-1)

Ryan Guy - St Patrick's Athletic - Thu Aug 27 v Steaua Bucuresti (0-3)

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - Thu Aug 27 v Rapid Vienna (0-1)

Tim Howard - Everton - Thu Aug 27 at Sigma Olomouc (4-0)

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - Thu Aug 27 at Amkar Perm (3-1)

CONCACAF

El Salvador has announced their initial 22 player roster for the game on Sep 5 in Salt Lake City against the USA. Only 18 will make the game day roster.

G:

Miguel Montes - Aguila

Dagoberto Portillo - Alianza

D:

Alex Escobar - Metapan

Ramon Flores - FAS

Marvin Gonzalez - FAS

Mardoqueo Henriquez - FAS

Luis Miguel Hernandez - Aguila

Alfredo Pacheco - New York

Manuel Salazar - Firpo

Victor Turcios - Firpo

Deris Ariel Umanzor - Aguila

M:

Denis Alas - Firpo

Arturo Alvarez - San Jose

Salvador Coreas - Municipal Limeno

Juan Carlos Moscoso - FAS

Eliseo Quintanilla - Ermis Aradippou

Osael Romero - Vista Hermosa

Ramon Sanchez - San Jose

F:

Rudis Corrales - Aguila

William Reyes - FAS

Rodolfo Zelaya - Leon

ENGLAND

The first big Premiership derby of the season is this weekend as Manchester United host Arsenal on Sat Aug 29 at 11:15am Central on FSC.

EUROPE

The first big European derby of the season is this weekend as Milan host Inter on Sat Aug 29 at 1:30pm Central on FSC!

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Official web site for all match and tourney info. Playoff Round 2nd leg matches on Tue & Wed this week.

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

UEFA has given Dinamo Bucharest a 0-3 home forfeiture defeat against Slovan Liberec stemming from a match last week in which fans rioted in the stands and tried to storm the field. They will also play their next 2 home European matches in an empty stadium. There is also a stipulation for further punishment if they have any more problems in the next two years.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian on "the diamond midfield."
