It's Day 256 of 2016.

Americans in Europe Over The Weekend:

Danny Williams scored a PK 5 minutes into 2nd half stoppage time winning the game 2-1 for Reading over Ipswich on Friday.

Bobby Wood cracked home his 2nd goal in as many games for Hamburger, which is great, but they lost 3-1 at Leverkusen, and only have 1 point from those 2 games.

Aron Johannsson got his first goal of the year for Werder Bremen, on a Penalty Kick. But they lost as well, 1-2 v Augsburg

The German press was raving about the performance by John Brooks for Hertha, naming him Man Of The Match in their 0-2 win at Ingolstadt.

DeAndre Yedlin scored his first goal for Newcastle, getting this teams 2nd goal very late in the match as they won 2-0 v Derby County.

dN

Americans In Mexico Status Report:

Jose Torres continues to start for Tigres. (2nd Place)

Omar Gonzalez is an automatic first 11 for Pachuca. (6th Place)

Michael Orozco starts every game and Paul Arriola is the first player off the bench every game for Tijuana. (1st Place)

William Yarbrough is the starting goalkeeper for Leon. (16th Place)

Jorge Villafana starts at left fullback for Santos Laguna. (17th Place)

Jonathan Bornstein is the left fullback of choice for Queretaro. (13th Place)

Coming up on Sat Sep 17, several Americans face off in Pachuca v Tijuana

dN

A closer look at those accomplishments and more from American's playing in foreign leagues this past week. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

dN

US Open Cup Final

-Tue Sep 13

FC Dallas v New England Revolution - at 9pm CT on ESPN2 and UDN

Prediction: I am going to go with the home team Dallas in a Penalty Kick Shootout.

Match preview. From US Soccer.

dN

My Minnesota United Notes:

Lost 1-0 at New York

Game highlights [VIDEO]

Cosmos had 1 1/2 quality chances and beautifully finished 1 of them for the win.

Minn had a great chance to close the gap at the top as 2nd place Edmonton and 3rd place Indy lost too. But no.

The most dangerous player on the field for the Loons was Lance Laing but he was the first player subbed off, in the 70th min. Booooo.

I know Laing has some huge holes in his game this season, especially in the hustle and defense departments, but the guy charges forward and threatens the opposition goal. Very few teammates do the same.

Christian Ramirez had 3 or 4 golden chances and was denied every time.

The Loons should have buried the Cosmos, but again that killer instinct is not in this team. I have no idea how a team finds it, but over the past few years this team has rarely had it.

Up next: Sat Sep 17 at home v Ottawa

dN

NASL Week 21 results:

-Sat Sep 10

Fort Lauderdale 2-1 Indy

New York 1-0 Minnesota

Puerto Rico 0-0 Tampa

Carolina 0-0 Ottawa

-Sun Sep 11

Edmonton 0-2 Miami

OKC 3-2 Jacksonville

11 goals in 6 games = 1.8 goals per game. Belly flop!

dN

Miami is making a run at the Fall season. They are up to 3rd place with 22 points, but still 8 behind the Cosmos. Miami will probably have to win the Fall to make the playoffs.

dN

Hey, you know, just in case you need to stay on top of the basics in the NFL: Here’s What We Learned in Week 1. By Benjamin Hoffman of the New York Times.

dN

Former USWNT star Abby Wambach has a new book coming out, and in it she describes her years long battle with alcohol and pills. by Anne Peterson of AP.

dN

Landon Donovan came on as a sub for the LA Galaxy in his first game back and played about 10 minutes. This was his expression when the final whistle blew:

A rough night for Old Man Donovan. Plays 10 minutes and is exhausted. LA wins 4-2 over Orlando.

A photo posted by brucio mcguire (@brucedunord) on Sep 11, 2016 at 6:12pm PDT

dN

MY MLS Notes:

Toronto moves into 1st place in the East. We are coming very close to finally calling this team successful on the field.

6 goals in 8 games for Jozy Altidore since returning from a hamstring injury. That doesn't include the 3 he scored in 2 games for the USA last week. Wow.

Tim Howard had that big game Colorado fans were hoping for since he joined the team this summer, shutting down the talented Dallas offense on the road and getting a vital 0-1 win.

Orlando scored first in LA, but then gave up 4 straight goals and any shot at road points.

All the teams have 5-7 games left in the regular season. Almost no room for error left now.

dN

The best review of MLS Week 27. By Matthew Doyle of MLSsoccer.com.

After taking a lead in games New York Red Bulls have proceeded to drop 18 points.

dN

Most interesting looking games in MLS Week 27:

-Sat Sep 10

Dallas 0-1 Colorado Rapids

Portland Timbers 1-0 Real Salt Lake

-Sun Sep 11

New York Red Bulls 2-2 DC United

LA Galaxy 4-2 Orlando City

44 goals in 12 games - 3.7 goals per game. Very good!

MLS Playoff Chase - 6th Place:

East

34 Orlando

-----

33 New England

33 DC

West

38 Portland

-----

34 Vancouver

33 San Jose

32 Seattle

dN

NYCFC technical director and former USMNT captain Claudio Reyna talks about how he used techniques for "vision" on the field to make him a better player. A lot of American players could really benefit from this idea. By Glenn Crooks for Empire Of Soccer.

dN

Bob Bradley + Le Havre Tracker:

Previous - Sat Sep 10 2-2 Valenciennes

Standings - 8th place, 4 points out of 1st after 6 played

Up Next - Fri Sep 16 at Bourg en Bresse

dN

English Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
