It's Day 34 of 2017.

After Brazil spent millions if not billions upgrading and building venues for the World Cup and Olympics the fabled Maracana stadium in Rio has been left to rot:

Six months after the Olympics, this is what Rio's Maracana stadium looks like https://t.co/ujy5Dj8ztB via @cnnsport pic.twitter.com/X59hSnaPy6

— CNN (@CNN) February 2, 2017

dN

The US National Women's Team still doesn't have a contract with US Soccer even though the old one officially, finally, expired on Dec 31. There are renewed efforts to get this done. By Andrew Das of the New York Times.

dN

Minnesota United Preseason

Another 1-1 tie for Minnesota, this time against the Croatian team. Again it was Eugene Starikov with the goal! Yvegeni making a strong push to make this team!!!

Match:

-Fri Feb 3

MNUFC 1-1 Nogometni Klub Istra 1961 (Croatia)

Istra beat the Portland Timbers 3-2 on Tuesday.

Training camp roster:

G: John Alvbage, Alec Ferrell, Marco Carducci (trialist), Sammy Ndjock (preseason invitee), Charlie Lyon (trialist)

D: Francisco Calvo, Tiago Calvano (preseason invitee), Justin Davis, Vadim Demidov, Thomas de Villardi, Joe Greenspan, Ismaila Jome, Brent Kallman, Lance Laing (preseason invitee), Jermaine Taylor, Kevin Venegas, Andrew Tinari (trialist)

M: Bernardo Anor, Raul Gonzalez (trialist), Ibson, Miguel Ibarra, Duke LaCroix (trialist), Collin Martin, Mohammed Saeid, Rasmus Schüller, Eugene Starikov (trialist), Tanner Thompson, Johan Venegas, Collen Warner

F: Abu Danladi, David Goldsmith (trialist), Femi Hollinger-Janzen, Christian Ramirez

I don't know if this is great or the kiss of death - A well known pundit thinks Minnesota United will be just fine this year. By Matthew Doyle of MLSsoccer.

dN

After suffering a torn achilles tendon in the middle of last season Nat Borchers has announced his retirement. Damn. Love that guy. And his giant beard.

dN

What are the key stories to keep your eyes on in the 2017 MLS season? Galaxy, Red Bull, Atlanta, Dallas, and Homegrown players. By the ESPNFC staff.

dN

Here is an interesting stat:

I did the math:

59 MLS foreign signings this winter, only nine of those players are age 30 or older

— Kevin Kinkead (@Kevin_Kinkead) February 3, 2017

dN

USMNT Friendly:

-Fri Feb 3

USA v Jamaica - 6:00pm CT on FS1

Chattanooga, Finley Stadium

A preview of the Jamaica game. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

As January camp reaches its final day with a game tonight Bruce Arena talks about how it has gone, and his plan for the months ahead. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

Have you asked yourself why the USMNT is playing in Chatanooga TN of all places (and on fake turf)? Plus other nuggets of USMNT info. By Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

Here is the 21 player roster for the Jamaica game:

G: David Bingham, Nick Rimando, Luis Robles

D: DaMarcus Beasley, Steve Birnbaum, Brad Evans, Greg Garza, Chad Marshall, Jorge Villafana, Walker Zimmerman, Graham Zusi

M: Alejandro Bedoya, Michael Bradley, Benny Feilhaber, Sebastian Lletget, Dax McCarty, Darlington Nagbe, Chris Pontius

F: Juan Agudelo, Jozy Altidore, Jordan Morris

Here is the Jamaica roster:

G: Andre Blake - Philadelphia Union, Ryan Thompson - unattached

D: Dwayne Ambusley - Montego Bay United, Sergio Campbell - unattached, Oniel Fisher - Seattle Sounders, Rosario Harriott - Harbour View, Kevon Lambert - Montego Bay United, Kemar Lawrence - New York Red Bulls, Damion Lowe - Tampa Bay Rowdies, Ladale Ritchie - Montego Bay United

M: Michael Binns - Portmore United, Omar Gordon - Montego Bay United, Ewan Grandison - Portmore United, Omar Holness - Real Salt Lake, Andrew Vanzie - Portmore United

F: Cory Burke - Bethlehem Steel, Jourdaine Fletcher - Montego Bay United, Shamar Nicolson - Boys’ Town, Allan Ottey - Montego Bay United, Romario Williams - Atlanta United

dN

Africa Cup of Nations Final:

-Sun Feb 5

Egypt v Cameroon - 1pm CT on beIN

dN

Biggest European matches this week:

-Sat Feb 4

Chelsea v Arsenal #1 v #2

Bayern v Schalke - very old rivals

Dortmund v Leipzig - 34 v #2

Monaco v Nice - #1 v #2

-Sun Feb 5

Juventus v Internazionale - Derby d'Italia

The Bird Is The Word
