-ADDITION: Japan Today is reporting: Japan will face the United States in San Francisco in an international friendly in mid-February next year ahead of the 2006 World Cup in Germany.

-Heading into the final weekend of MLS regular season play, 3 players have been on the field for every minute of their teams action: Simon Elliott of Columbus, Todd Dunivant of Los Angeles & Michael Parkhurst of New England (as if we needed another reason for him to be Rookie Of The Year).

-Here's the draw for the 6 UEFA teams vying for 3 World Cup spots (2 legs played November 12 & 16 - team named first at home in first leg)

Spain v Slovakia

Switzerland v Turkey

Norway v Czech Republic

-MLS games this weekend, and what the repercussions will be:

Saturday

New England v Chicago - nothing at stake cuz NE has the #1 seed and Chicago #3.

DC v Columbus - nothing at stake cuz DC has the #2 seed amd 'lumbus is out.

Dallas v Kansas City - KC needs to win. Period. If they do, then Metrostars will also need to win, and win by over 6 goals to catch KC on goal differential. If Dallas wins, they claim the #2 seed (or end up 3 or 4 with other results taken into account).

LA v San Jose - the final Cali Derby of the regular season. LA can still finish 2nd, 3rd or 4th. SJ is set at #1. See it live on FSC at 9pm central

Sunday

Chivas v Metrostars - Mets must win to get in if If KC loses or draws on Saturday. If KC wins, then the Mets must win by 6 goals (goal differential lead by KC) plus however many goals KC gets Saturday. It ain't over til it's over. See it live at 4pm on ESPN2

-See Kasey Keller and his team in Bundesliga action Saturday on FSC - VfB Stuttgart vs Borussia Moenchengladbach - 9am central

-San Jose's Brian Ching gets Q&A'd via US Soccer Players Assoc.

-Big matches in Europe this weekend:

Schalke 04 v Bayern Munich

Atletico Madrid v Real Madrid

Hamburg v Wolfsburg

PSV v AZ Alkmaar

Porto vBenfica

Marseille v PSG

-The Mexican Futbal League is back in action this weekend. Here is what we have:

Saturday

Jaguares v America

Atlante v UAG

Dorados v Morelia

Tigres v Atlas

Guadalajara v Monterrey

Necaxa v Cruz Azul

Sunday

San Luis v Veracruz

UNAM v Toluca

Santos v Pachuca

-Looking more and more each day like the Old Narcolept himself, Bobby Robson, will be the new head coach of Ireland. I am gonna miss not seeing Damien Duff and Robbie Keane in the World Cup. They were two of my faves in 02.

-Wonderful people from all over the globe have stopped by for a visit in the last day or two. Here are some of the countries representin':

Canada

Denmark

Germany

Hungary

Jordan

Netherlands

Portugal

We have also had visitors from 32 or the 50 United States, and of course the District of Columbia (bless their little hearts).

A couple more visitors from the business , government, and education world to acknowledge as well:

Gannett News

Environmental Protection Agency

U Pittsburgh

Covington Electric Cooperative

Adobe

-I stumbled across a soccer blog with the best name yet: BRUCE'S BELLY!!!!! Of course referring to our fearless leader's (Bruce Arena) gut. BUT..... the site is written in some crazy language that I don't even recognize. The titles and everything else on the page are in English. Am I missing the joke here?

-And don't forget, Champions League Matchday 3 happens next Tue & Wed starring Bayern v Juventus & Milan v PSV.
