It's Day 143 of 2017.

MINNESOTA UNITED

Abu Danladi out 2 to 3 weeks with groin muscle injury. Two articles, with a few different details:

Version of the story by Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Version of the story by Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

"One door closes and another one opens for somebody else, so we have to wait and see who maybe steps up." - Adrian Heath.

But who is on the roster that COULD step up? We are left baffled by the absence of Kadrii, and Schuller is still dealing with a hip injury. Jome is not the answer. Could Davis or KVenegas play in the attack at all? Questions, questions. We dream of answers.

Minnesota United will field a Special Olympics team from the state of Minnesota that will play a home and away series against a Texas team from the Houston Dynamo. The 2 games will take place right after games between the 2 MLS teams, on Jul 19 in Minneapolis and Sep 30 in Houston.

Next Up:

-Sat May 27

Minnesota v Orlando - 7:00pm CT on My29

Both Minnesota and Orlando have a big time forward and if you compare the stats they're nearly identical in production:

Christian Ramirez

10026 minutes played

128 games

117 starts

70 goals

1 goal every 143 minutes

4 yellow cards

0 red cards

Cyle Larin

5425 minutes played

71 games

65 starts

38 goals

1 goal every 143 minutes

1 yellow card

1 red card

dN

MLS

I am not sure how to figure out Philadelphia. After not winning a game in what felt like years (aka 16 games) they have now won 4 in a row. What gives? Why? How? I literally have no answers. But they have done it, and it is good. In those 4 games they have scored 11 goals and allowed 1. Their fans should be chanting, "It's a miracle!"

Here is some form of explanation. By John Smallwood of the Philadelphia Daily News.

The 5 best MLS goals from Week 12. [VIDEO]

dN

Miguel Almiron of Atlanta United named MLS Player Of The Week

Dane Kelly of Reno 1868 named USL Player Of The Week

Christen Press of Chicago Red Stars named NWSL Player Of The Week

Zach Steinberger of Jacksonville Armada named NASL Player Of The Week

dN

USMNT

The "yup," the "nope," and the "maybe" players for near future USA consideration. By Arch Bell for ESPNFC.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

It's a whole new world for DeAndre Yedlin and he is happy about it. His team Newcastle were crowned champions of England's 2nd division this season and have been promoted to the Premier League for 2017-18. By Kristan Heneage for the Guardian.

dN

Men's U20 World Cup - South Korea

How did the USA find their way back into a game that they were nearly out of with just 7 minutes gone? By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

USMNT - Group F - Schedule/Results:

-Mon May 22

USA 3-3 Ecuador - USA goals by Josh Sargent(2) + Luca De La Torre.

Incheon Stadium

-Thu May 25

USA v Senegal - 6:00AM CT on FS1

Incheon Stadium

-Sun May 28

USA v Saudi Arabia - 4:00AM CT on FS1

Daejeon Stadium

USA Roster

G: Jonathan Klinsmann - U California, JT Marcinkowski - Georgetown U, Brady Scott - De Anza Force

D: Danny Acosta - Real Salt Lake, Cameron Carter-Vickers - Tottenham, Justen Glad - Real Salt Lake, Aaron Herrera - U New Mexico, Erik Palmer-Brown - Sporting Kansas City, Tommy Redding - Orlando City, Auston Trusty - Philadelphia Union

M: Tyler Adams - New York Red Bulls, Luca De La Torre - Fulham, Derrick Jones - Philadelphia Union, Eryk Williamson - U Maryland, Gedion Zelalem - Arsenal

F: Jeremy Ebobisse - Portland Timbers, Lagos Kunga - Atlanta United, Brooks Lennon - Real Salt Lake, Emmanuel Sabbi - unaffiliated, Josh Sargent - St. Louis Scott Gallagher Missouri, Sebastian Saucedo - Real Salt Lake

C: Tab Ramos

Group F Standings:

3 Sengal (+2)

1 Ecuador (0)

1 USA (0)

0 Saudi Arabia (-2)

The tournament.

dN

Canadian Championship

Semifinals Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Tue May 23

Ottawa v Toronto

Vancouver v Montreal

2nd Leg

May 31

-Tue May 30

Montreal v Vancouver

-Wed May 31

Toronto v Ottawa

The Bird Is The Word
