I got home late Monday night after spending time with my sister in Milwaukee on Sunday and Monday. I thought I would bring you all up to date on the subjects talked about at the Saturday meetings.

There was a complete backtrack on concessions. Seeing as a potential owner is a Pizza Hut franchisee, he demanded that all concessions be from Pizza Hut and its fellow food Corps (ie. Taco Bell, KFC & Pepsi) only! The vote was a unanimous "Yes".

The Ferris Wheel is a go, and it looks like the go-karts may have been premature on my part, but a Water Park is almost 100%. They are also talking about a Petting Zoo, and a Milwaukee Sports & Auto Museum.

The big topic of the day was music in the stadium (most people at the meeting love that stuff so expect plenty). A Mascot - probably a mouse (for Cheese!). And how the cheerleaders will look and act! All pretty exciting stuff.

Other uses for the stadium itself will include Music Concerts, Tractor Pulls, Moto-Cross, Snowmobile Races, Rodeos, and a Circus. They are looking to book at least a month or more each summer to do these events, so the team would have to play on the road at that time. Plus many High School events from sports to graduations. The whole idea is to have a real family feel to the place.

There will be a restaurant next to, but not attached to, the stadium. Due to the success of TGIFridays at the Brewer's Miller Park, they are leaning toward a well known franchise, Olive Garden being the most likely. Applebee's, Chili's & Red's Savoy are also strong possibilities.

CSC will definitely do security and will not allow swearing or signs made in poor taste.

They are also planning on a having a moment of silent prayer before each event at the stadium.

The Wisconsin Dairy Board is most likely going to buy naming rights to the stadium, and at this time the name being proposed is Cheddar Stadium.

All in all it was a privilege to attend these meetings, and see the exciting plans.

That's it from the shores of Lake Michigan.

See you in the funny papers.

PS. UPDATE on the Hot Mother-Daughter at the meetings: The hot mom still hates me, but I got the daughters phone number!

ADDITION: Krispy Kreme donuts will be sold at all games.
