TEAM USA JANUARY TRAINING CAMP

Friendly Match & Score:

-Sat Jan 23

USA 1-3 Honduras - USA goal by Clarence Goodson. Hon goals by Carlos Pavon(PK), Jerry Palacios & Roger Espinoza.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 18,626

Match report from US Soccer.

Post game quotes by USA coach and players from US Soccer.

Match report by Paul Kennedy of Soccer America.

Player ratings by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Post game analysis by Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America.

Player ratings by Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365.

Post game analysis by Nick Green of the Daily Breeze on his blog 100 Percent Soccer.

Match report by Phil Collin of the LA Daily News.

Match report by Luis Bueno of the Press Enterprise.

Match report by Grahame Jones of the LA Times.

Match report & player ratings from ESPN Soccernet.

Post game analysis by Martin Rogers of Yahoo Sports.

Player ratings by Jack Bell of the New York Times.

dN

Billy Witz of the New York Times on Jonathan Bornstein, the USA and Honduras hero.

dN

Official Blog

dN

du Nord 3 Stars of the Game

3 Jonathan Bornstein - the only USA player to look like he actually belonged on the field. He was far from perfect, but his teammates put in so many bad spots that he found himself in over and over again, not to mention that fact that he became one of three backs after Conrad's stupid Red Card, and moved to centerback when Bradley FINALLY brought on another defender after the break (but the damage had already been done.)

2 Walter Martinez - a true terror on the right wing. Kept Bornstein & Rogers occupied so much that they had trouble contributing to the USA attack. And he made a lot of defenders look silly. Why isn't he in MLS?

1 Jerry Palacios - drew a penalty for the first goal, set up the third goal, and scored the second which was the game winner on a great diving header. A complete menace to the USA centerbacks all game long. It could have been worse too as he mercifully headed to the bench in the 61st minute.

Others of Note: Clarence Goodson, Brad Davis and Alejandro Bedoya also game a good showing for themselves with quality, efficiency and tenacity (qualities that were lacking in many other USA players on the night.)

STARTERS

Oh this is awful ..... The Associated Press reports that Salvador Cabanas, one of the best forwards in the Mexican Primera and on the Paraguay national team for the past decade was shot in the head during an altercation with 2 men. Via Yahoo Sports. We are having good thoughts for him and his loved ones.

-And here are some official words from his team Club America (in Spanish.)

dN

Is Stuart Holden official at Bolton? We have at least second hand confirmation via Houston developmental player Erik Eustruck who Twittered: "Congrats @stuholden22 on signing w the Bolton Wanderers!"

CHARLIE DAVIES INJURY UPATE

Ives Galarcep writing for ESPN Soccernet tells us the latest news on the Charlie Davies rehab project. With real quotes from CD9.

-Galarcep gives us more notes on Davies from his own site Soccer by Ives.

FACT OF THE DAY

Jose Mourinho has not lost a home game in 8 years, in all competitions, no matter who he is managing! Simply astonishing!

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES THIS WEEKEND

-Sat Jan 23

Juventus 1-2 Roma - #2 in the standings just a month ago, Juve are in freefall dropping now to 6th place, while Roma charge the opposite direction only 2 points out of #2.

-Sun Jan 24

Inter 2-0 Milan - #1 finishes the game with just 9 men on the field but still dominates their rivals to take a 9 point lead in the league.

Getafe 1-0 Atletico Madrid - the home side wins the lesser Madrid derby.

HAITIAN RELIEF EFFORTS

USA & Chivas USA player Jonathan Bornstein is holding an EBay auction to raise money for Haiti. He is selling the shoes he wore when he scored his now famous goal against Costa Rica.

TWITTERVERSE

Kei Kamara of the Kansas City Wizards comments on the state of soccer in his homeland: "uuuhhhh Nigeria won...Sierra Leone we need to do something...players deserve to be up there but Federation is Shit"

MLS NEWS

Jose Romero of the Seattle Times looks at season 2 for the Sounders. How will they match or exceed season 1?

dN

Romero gives us day 1 of Seattle preseason. No Ljungberg! Maybe he is blogging? Plus CBA and Fredy Montero talk.

dN

Chivas USA has announced that head coach Martin Vasquez will be assisted this season by Carlos Llamosa along with newcomers Carlos Juarez, Nick Theslof & Daniel Gonzalez.

dN

The Philadelphia Inquirer runs an article on the Union entitled: Team official foresees success for pro soccer in Phila.

-Gee Whiz Mr Wizard! Did ya come up with that headline all on your own, or was it a full editorial staff effort? We all know a team exec is not going to say: "I don't see us doing all that well." I hope the Philly papers have some better soccer coverage than this on a regular basis or we are all doomed.

dN

(This is more like it:) The Philly Inquirer with an article on the great American legend Walter Bahr who talks past, present and future.

dN

Gareth Wheeler of the Toronto Sun looks at the Preki factor. What will the new head coach bring to TFC?

MLS RUMORS

Is former Toronto goalkeeper Greg Sutton going to sign with the New York Red Bulls? Is he in Spain with them right now? What about the German keeper they were lining up?

dN

The two most recent rumor reports from Soccer 365 on Fredy Montero, Eduardo (not the uhmm Croatian), DaMarcus Beasley, Stuart Holden, Amaechi Igwe, Vincenzo Bernardo, Steve Clark and Andrew Quinn.

MLS STADIUM BUILDING

Greg Seltzer at Soccer 365 interviews KC Wiz team pres Robb Heinemann about his vision for the new facilities.

NEW DIVISION 2 SOCCER TEAM IN MINNESOTA

The Coon Rapids Herald with a nice recap of the meeting of the minds last week up in Blaine.

USA U20 TEAM

Copa Chivas

Jan 22 - 30 in Guadalajara Mexico

Official website

dN

Group Stage Matches & Scores:

USA 1-3 Pachuca

USA 1-1 Brazil

USA 0-1 UANL Tigres

USA v Atlas

USA v Saprissa

dN

GROUP B STANDINGS (3 of 5 games played)

9 Atlas (+7 GD)

6 UANL Tigres (0 GD)

4 Saprissa (-1 GD)

3 Pachuca (-2 GD)

2 Brazil (-1 GD)

1 USA (-3 GD)

dN

There are 3 groups and the 1st & 2nd place team from each group, and the two best 3rd place teams will advance to the Quarterfinals.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Zak Whitbread made his debut for Norwich after missing the whole first half of the season at Millwall with an injury. Not a bad move for him moving from the 8th place team to the #1 squad in League One.

dN

Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365 talks to Hunter Freeman about his return from ankle surgery.

dN

Yanks Abroad is reporting that Kamani Hill may be loaned out by Guimares.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - FA Cup - 4th Round

Landon Donovan - Everton - started and went 76 minutes but they lost at home 1-2 to Birmingham.

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - went the full 90 as they beat Brighton 3-2 at home.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance but lost 1-2 at home to Birmingham.

ENGLAND - Championship

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the full 90 but lost 3-2 at Blackpool.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Stockport County - got the start on his debut and went the full 90 as they drew 0-0 at Carlisle United.

Zak Whitbread - Norwich - came on at half time in his debut and they beat Brentford 1-0 at home. Good start.

FRANCE - Coupe de France

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - went the full 90 as they won 0-4 at at Sumar in the Round of 32.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the full game and drew 0-0 at Hertha.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - played the entire match but they lost 1-0 at Mainz.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Matt Taylor - Frankfurt - started and played 63 minutes in a brutal loss at home 0-5 to Greuther Furth.

Greece -

Eddie Johnson - Aris Thessalonika - came on as a sub in the 68th minute as they went to Panathinaikos and drew 0-0.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the entire match but got crush at De Graafschap 4-0.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - Premiership

Landon Donovan - Everton - Wed Jan 27 v Sunderland

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - Wed Jan 27 v Arsenal

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - Wed Jan 27 v Arsenal

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - Tue Jan 26 v Liverpool

Tim Howard - Everton - Wed Jan 27 v Sunderland

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - Tue Jan 26 at Portsmouth

AMERICANS IN EUROPE - RUMORS

Is today the day that Bolton signs Stuart Holden to a 6 month contract?? Looks like it is.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the distance but lost 1-3 at Guadalajara.

Herculez Gomez - Pueblo - came on in the 51st minute as they won on the road 2-3 at Tecos.

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - started and played 70 minutes but they lost 1-0 at Queretaro.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - went the full 90 as they drew 0-0 at home against Santos Laguna.

ENGLAND

32 teams faced off in the 4th Round of the FA Cup this past weekend. Here are those results.

-As far as big upsets go Arsenal was knocked out by Stoke City and Reading beat Burnley.

-The 5th Round will be played Sat Feb 13, with the big matchup being the Southcoast derby - Southampton v Portsmouth!

SPAIN

At the official half way point of the season Barca not only lead the league by 5 points, but they still have not lost a game this season, and have never even trailed in a game!! Wow!

dN

Phil Ball of ESPN Soccernet gives us the mid-season report from Spain's top flight.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian tells us about Getafe, they of the hilarious Burger King shirts that can be flipped inside out to present the King-face, are #2 in Madrid these days, and a round up of the rest of La Liga.

dN

Top La Liga Team Standings (19 games played)

49 Barcelona - Last: Sat Jan 23 W 0-3 at Valladolid - Next: Sat Jan 30 at Sporting Gijon

44 Real Madrid - Last: Sun Jan 24 W 2-0 v Mallorca - Next: Sat Jan 30 at Deportivo La Coruna

39 Valencia - Last: Sun Jan 24 D 0-0 at Tenerife - Next: Sun Jan 31 at Sevilla

34 Mallorca - Last: Sat Jan 23 L 2-0 at Real Madrid - Next: Sun Jan 31 at Xerez

34 Deportivo La Coruna - Last: Sat Jan 23 W 3-1 v Bilbao - Next: Sat Jan 30 v Real Madrid

33 Sevilla - Last: Sat Jan 23 W 1-0 v Almeria - Next: Sun Jan 31 v Valencia

FRANCE

COUPE DE FRANCE Round of 32

-Fri Jan 22

Saumur 0-4 Stade Rennes

-Sat Jan 23

Beauvais 3-0 Agen

Quevilly 1-0 Angers

Bordeaux 5-1 Ajaccio

Raon-l'Etape 0-1 Vesoul

Mulhouse 0-1 Guingamp

-Sun Jan 24

Paris St Germain 3-1 Evian Thonon Gaillard

Monaco 2-1 Lyon

-Tue Jan 26

Auxerre v Sedan

Vannes v Grenoble

Lens v Marseille

Sochaux v Le Mans

-Wed Jan 27

Colmar v Boulogne

Nancy v Plabennec

-Tue Feb 2

Toulouse v Brest

-Wed Feb 3

Villefranche v Saint Etienne

dN

COUPE DE LA LIGUE

Round of 16

-Tue Jan 26

Le Mans v Bordeaux

Quarterfinals

-Wed Jan 27

Lorient v Lyon

Guingamp v Toulouse

Marseille v Lille

-Mon Feb 1

Le Mans/Bordeaux winner v Sedan

GERMANY

Ruud-Booy Van Nistelrooy has taken his dog and pony show to Hamburg!

dN

Wolfsburg, last seasons surprise champions, have fired manager Armin Veh.

dN

Raphael Honigstien of the Guardian looks at Wolfsburg's hideous season and the rest of the weekend in die Bundesliga.

dN

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (18 games played)

41 Bayer Leverkusen- Last: Sun Jan 24 W 0-3 at Hoffenheim - Next: Sun Jan 31 v Freiburg

39 Bayern Munich - Last: Sat Jan 23 W 2-3 at Werder Bremen - Next: Sat Jan 30 v Mainz

38 Schalke - Last: Sat Jan 23 D 2-2 at Bochum - Next: Sat Jan 30 v Hoffenheim

36 Dortmund - Last: Sat Jan 23 W 1-0 v Hamburg - Next: Sun Jan 31 at Stuttgart

34 Hamburg - Last: Sat Jan 23 L 1-0 at Dortmund - Next: Fri Jan 29 v Wolfsburg

ITALY

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian looks at Inter's latest theories of plots against them, and then tells us about the last weekend of matches in Serie A.

dN

COPPA ITALIA

Quarterfinals - Matches & Scores:

-Tue Jan 26

Roma v Catania

Milan v Udineses

Inter v Juvenus

Semifinals - Matches & Scores:

Fiorentina v ??

?? v ??

dN

Top Serie A Team Standings (21 games played)

49 Inter - Last: Sun Jan 24 W 2-0 v Milan - Next: Sun Jan 31 at Parma

40 Milan (20 games played) - Last: Sun Jan 24 L 2-0 at Inter - Next: Sun Jan 31 v Livorno

38 Roma - Last: Sat Jan 23 W 1-2 at Juventus - Next: Sun Jan 31 v Siena

37 Napoli - Last: Sun Jan 24 W 0-2 at Livorno - Next: Sat Jan 30 v Genoa

34 Palermo - Last: Sun Jan 24 W 3-0 v Fiorentina - Next: Sat Jan 30 at Bari

33 Juventus - Last: Sat Jan 23 L 1-2 v Roma - Next: Sun Jan 31 v Lazio

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

Barney Ronay of the Guardian gives us Five Things We Learned This Weekend .... in football.
