I recovered some of what was lost on Friday, sorry about that again, and will just integrate it into today’s news.

A full reshuffling of the deck in both MLS conferences as Columbus takes over the lead in the East and Houston in the West. WOW!

~and~

Bruce Arena is the new coach in LA.

~and~

DaMarcus Beasley has been declared healthy and added to Team USA for the trip to Guatemala on Wednesday.

~and~

Some Latino Fire fans have had run ins with security at Toyota Park. The fans say the security have been racist toward them. The team, including Blanco and the security firm in question, who also provide personal security for Blanco, say the fans are drunks. The fans say they are not drinking. So does this mean that in the eyes of the Fire, their star player and their security agency being drunk is worse than being racist? That is some messed up thinking. See article in Chicago Fire section.

~and~

Benny Feilhaber gets a new home as Derby sell him to Aarhus in Denmark where he will join fellow American Jeremiah White

~and~

Happy (belated) Birthday to reader Prairie Rose Clayton!

MLS Scoreboard

Week 21

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Aug 14

Chivas USA 2-2 Los Angeles - CUSA goals by Paulo Nagamura & Attiba Harris. LAG goals by Landon Donovan & Alan Gordon.

Attendance: 27,000

Venue: Home Depot Center, Carson CA

-Sat Aug 16

Columbus 1-2 Dallas - CC goals by Brian Carroll & Brad Evans. FCD goal by Jeff Cunningham.

Attendance: 17,647

Venue: Crew Stadium, Columbus OH

Match report by Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch.

Match report from the Dallas Morning News.

Match report from the Fort Worth Star Telegram.

Post game notes by Mitchell.

Chicago 0-1 DC - DCU goal by Fred2.

Attendance: 19,560

Venue: Toyota Park, Bridgeview IL

Match report by Luis Arroyave of the Chicago Tribune.

Match report by Nick Firchau of the Chicago Sun Times.

Match report by Orrin Schwarz of the Daily Herald.

Match report by Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

Match report by Chris Webb of United Mania.

Post game notes and DC player ratings by Goff on his blog Soccer Insider.

Houston 4-3 Salt Lake - HD goals by Brian Mullan, Brian Ching, Ricardo Clark & Nate Jaqua. RSL goals by Yura Movsisyan, Javier Morales & Kenny Deuchar.

Attendance: 13,579

Venue: Robertson Stadium, Houston TX

Match report by Bernardo Fallas of the Houston Chronicle.

Match report from the Deseret News.

Post game notes by Fallas on his blog Soccer y Futbol.

Players ratings for RSL by James Edward of the Deseret News.

Colorado 2-1 Kansas City - CR goals both by Conor Casey. KCW goal by Michael Harrington.

Attendance: 10,609 - What do you think the real number was.

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park, Commerce City CO

Match report by Brian Forbes of the Denver Post.

Match report from the Kansas City Star.

San Jose 4-0 New England - SJE goals by Ronnie O'Brien (2), Ryan Johnson & Scott Sealy.

Attendance: 9,859 - how can you not sell out a place that holds 11,000?????

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium, Santa Clara CA

Match report from the San Jose Mercury News.

Match report by Embele Awipi of Center Line Soccer.

Post game notes by Jay Hipps of Center Line.

-Sun Aug 17

New York 2-0 Toronto - - NYRB goals by Mike Magee & Juan Pablo Angel.

Attendance: 11,119

Venue: Giants Stadium, Easter Rutherford NJ

Match report by Frank Giase of the Newark Star Ledger.

Match report by Dylan Butler of Big Apple Soccer.

Match report from the Herald News.

Match report from the New York Post.

Match report from the Toronto Star by none other than Ives Galarcep.

Post game notes by Ben Knight of the Toronto Globe & Mail blog On Soccer.

Red Cards:

Gabriel Cichero - New York - straight Red for an elbow to Danny Dichio's head.

League Standings

MLS News

CHICAGO FIRE

The Tribune with an article on a conflict between the team and their security agents, and some Latino fans. There have been charges of racism leveled at the security people. The fans have been accused of being drunk and disorderly. Blanco has even become involved personally. And it does not look good.

-Fire supporters groups have been meeting to try and get this sorted out - here is a recap of that.

-Luis Arroyave on his blog The Red Card has more quotes from Blanco that are even worse than the originals! He literally calls the fans "Shit". I think the hero is misinformed.

A couple more guest bloggers on Luis Arroyave's The Red Card at the end of last week:

-My friend Shawn Francis of The Offside Rules.

-DC United legend Ben Olsen.

Arroyave talks to midfielder Ivan Guerrero about his move from Chicago to San Jose to now DC.

CD CHIVAS USA

Jesse Marsch took such a strong elbow to the face from LA's Sean Franklin that he ended up with a broken jaw. What a drag! They had to finish the last 10 or so minutes of the game with only 10 men on the field because all their subs had been used.

Luis Bueno on his blog Sideline Views describes the entire wild scene at the HDC last Thursday night with Bruce Arena making his first appearance. What a night it would have been to have that "backstage" view.

COLORADO RAPIDS

In a very exciting development Cory Gibbs was not just healthy when he got to Colorado last week, but he started and went the full 90 for his new team on Saturday!!! He has been one of my favorites for a long time, and its great to see him back on the field.

And Mike Petke returned from long term injury to start at centerback as well!

Greg Lalas at Goal.com talks to Gibbs about his new team Colorado, and his several year long battle with bad injuries.

-Little known fact: Cory is married to Zena McNally, former member of English girl group Mis-Teeq!

It's great to see Conor Casey get on a roll too. If he could only stay healthy for a long period of time, I think he could be a monster out there.

COLUMBUS CREW

Pat Noonan made his debut, and Robbie Rogers returned from the Olympics to add a few innings of relief work. Gino Padula also returned from injury.

FC DALLAS

Jeff Cunningham made his debut with the team and promptly did what Toronto coach John Carver recently thought he was unable to do - score a goal. That gives him 100 all time in MLS. He is the 4th person to hit that miles stone behind Jason Kreis (108 - retired), Jaime Moreno (120 & counting) & Ante Razov (113 & counting). (Taylor Twellman is not far behind at 93 & counting.)

Midfielder Victor Sikora also made his debut with the team.

DC UNITED

New goalkeeper Louis Crayton got his work visa all line up and played immediately. And they got a clean sheet on the road.

LOS ANGELES GALAXY

Jonah Freedman of Sports Illustrated on his blog Throw-Ins has a very juicy quote from former Gal Chris Albright on his dislike for Ruud Gullit. (Second part of the entry.) I love it!

NEW ENGLAND REVOLUTION

That loss to San Jose shows you just how great Shalrie Joseph is. He was suspended and it was like the team was playing with 9 or 10 men at times. It sure makes me take notice that maybe he is the best player in the league as many others have said. (Actually, I still think he is top 5 but not #1.)

Then excellent goalkeeper Matt Reis get's hurt (groin strain) and it now seems like 8 or 9 v 11. Oof.

Jonah Freedman of Sports Illustrated on his blog Throw-Ins tells the tale of New England midfielder Khano Smith going after some San Jose fans post-game. Not a smooth move Khano!

RED BULL NEW YORK

NYRB played the entire 2nd half a man short after new centerback Gabriel Cichero was Red Carded only seconds after the restart for an elbow that connected with the head of Toronto's Danny Dichio as the two went up for a 50/50 ball. Dichio suffered another re-occurrence of concussion symptoms on the play and was subbed out immediately.

And if that elbow constituted a Red Card, which it was questionable but not a bad call, then there is a Red Card foul for an elbow to the head on a 50-50 ball in nearly every MLS game. Nearly every game from around the world for that matter.

During the TV broadcast of Sunday's Bulls game, they had a short feature saying that as of today the construction crew would begin assembling the steel sections of Red Bull Park!

Brian Lewis of the New York Post on his blog Extra Time says New York didn't get their foreign striker, and will now try to sign a US based forward.

It was good to hear that midfielder Dane Richards got his Green Card, which will take him off the International portion of his teams roster.

REAL SALT LAKE

Clint Mathis made a re-debut with RSL on Saturday night. His head is completely shaven bald.

TORONTO FC

It looks like midfielder Maurice Edu is definitely on his way out of town. See Americans IN Europe - Rumor section below.

In a very sad scene during the game on Sunday v New York, Danny Dichio returned to the field after several weeks out due to concussion symptoms. He came on as a half time sub, and less than 1 minute later took an elbow to the side of the head that knocked him straight back out. What a huge drag for him. Head injuries bum me out more than anything else.

-Ives Galarcep of Soccer By Ives talked to Dichio after the game and it appears as though he is going to be OK. They took him out for precautions. Good move.

How bad is Toronto on the road? They even got completely outplayed by 10 man New York.

Morgan Campbell of the Star reports that TFC has signed speedy young American forward Johann Smith. Smith has been at Bolton in England for the past few season, and spent the last 2 years on loan at Carlisle United, Darlington & Stockport County. The team acquired his rights in the allocation draft by buying him from New England.

Ben Knight on the Globe & Mail blog On Soccer says the Canadian Football League team Toronto Argonauts is making waves about moving in to play alongside TFC at BMO Field. Oh what a disaster that would be.

GENERAL

Steve Davis of Soccernet with 10 things to note from Week 21.

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with his weekly breakdown of league action.

Ives Galarcep of Soccer By Ives reviews the weekend of matches.

Steve Pastorino at the US National Soccer Players Association looks at the moves made by Western Conference teams as we head for home.

MLS Golden Boot

14 Landon Donovan

13 Kenny Cooper

12 Edson Buddle

11 Luciano Emilio

9 Brian Ching

8 Jaime Moreno

7 Alejandro Moreno

7 Juan Pablo Angel

MLS Rumor City - Don't Tease Me Bro!

Soccer365 has gotten wind of a rumor in France that has New York talking to Rennes forward Sylvain Wiltord who is on the outs with his team. But the MLS international transfer period is over. So how could this happen. Very very doubtful.

MLS Expansion News

The Seattle Times and Post Intelligencer are on hand as the Sounders unveil their first goalkeeper - Kasey Keller, who looks very happy in the photos.

-More pics, stories and some video from the Sounders official website.

-The team is also looking to sign current Sounders keeper Chris Eylander for next season.

USL First Division News

Minnesota Thunder

Our team reverted to a form that looked a little too much like 6 weeks ago, and lost badly on the road, which also knocked them back into 8th spot and out of the playoffs again.

USL First Division Scoreboard

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Aug 13

Montreal 1-0 Rochester

-Fri Aug 15

Carolina 3-2 Miami

Seattle 0-3 Puerto Rico

-Sat Aug 16

Rochester 3-1 Minnesota

Atlanta 0-0 Charleston

Portland 2-1 Montreal

-Sun Aug 17

Vancouver 0-0 Puerto Rico

USL First Division Standings

Standings (games played) (goal difference):

41 Puerto Rico (23)

38 Vancouver (22)

36 Charleston (23)

32 Seattle (24) (GD -1)

32 Atlanta (22) (GD -3)

31 Rochester (24)

28 Portland (24)

- - - - - - - - -

27 Minnesota (23)

25 Montreal (21)

24 Miami (23) (GD -3)

24 Carolina (23) (GD -11)

(The top 7 teams advance to the playoffs.)

US Soccer News

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated sits down for a Q & A with US Soccer president Sunil Gulati.

Jeff Carlisle at Soccernet says no one should be satisfied with "moral victories" any more from US Soccer and all their teams.

Team USA

You can add DaMarcus Beasley to the USA roster for the match next Wednesday in Guatemala.

Wednesday! Wednesday! Wednesday! Are you ready?!?!?!

Steven Goff of the Washington Post on his blog Soccer Insider reports that the USA went to Guatemala early due to heavy storms hitting the Caribbean and south Florida area over the next few days. They did not want to get stuck.

Lots of new stuff on the team's official blog.

US Soccer has an audio interview with Brad Guzan and Sacha Kljestan. Download or listen here.

They also have a video interview with Frankie Hejduk and Landon Donovan.

USA U23 News

Jeff Carlisle of Soccernet on Michael Orozco and his very costly Red Card in the Olympic game against Nigeria. Michael Bradley defends ALL of his teammates.

USA U20 News

2 Friendlies last week in Sunrise FL.

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Aug 12

USA 0-1 Guatemala - Guat goal by Dario Gomez.

-Thu Aug 14

USA 0-0 Guatemala

Soccer In America

Our friend Brian has posted some great pictures he took during the heyday of our Minnesota Kicks of the NASL. Awesome for nostalgia.

Americans In Europe

Ravi Ubha at Soccernet talks to Marcus Hahnemann about Reading, relegation and drive to go straight back up.

TRANSFER RUMORS

The word going around England and Wales is that Eddie Johnson is on the way out the door at Fulham, and headed to Championship Division team Cardiff City.

Steven Goff of the Washington Post on his blog Soccer Insider reports that TFC midfielder Maurice Edu is all but gone to Rangers for $5 million. Yes, Rangers of Scotland!

Greg Seltzer at Soccer365 says Preston Zimmerman at Hamburg is looking to go out on loan this season.

Another of the "four" teams that have shown interest in Oguchi Onyewu has been indentified as the long time pro-fascists of Lazio. Who in their right mind would ever want to play at that club??

-Paris St Germain was the first team mentioned.

RECENT MATCHES

UEFA Cup Second Qualifying Round 1st Leg - Thu Aug 14

-Brian Arguez - Hertha Berlin - won 0-2 at NK Ljubljana of Slovenia

-Vincezno Bernardo - Napoli - won 0-3 at Vllaznia of Albania

-Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - lost 2-1 at Stabaek of Norway

-Dan Califf - Midtjylland - won 0-1 at Manchester City of England

-Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - won 2-1 at home over Rennes of France

-Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - won 1-4 at Hafnarfjordur of Iceland

-Ryan Guy - St Patricks Athletic - tied 2-2 at Elfsborg of Sweden

-Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - won 1-4 at Hafnarfjordur of Iceland

How'd their weekend matches go:

French Ligue 1

-Freddy Adu - Monaco - just returned from the Olympics and did not dress as they drew at home to Nantes 1-1.

-Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - played all 90 but the team lost 1-0 at Grenoble.

-Andrew Jacobsen - Lorient - did not suit up for the teams big 0-0 home tie with powerhouse Lyon.

French Ligue 2

-Quentin Westberg - Troyes - did not dress as they won 1-0 at Chateauroux.

Scottish Premiership

-DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - came on in the 62nd minute as they beat Hearts 2-0.

Dutch Erstedivisie

-Charles Kazlauskas - TOP Oss - went the distance in defense as they won 3-0 at home over Omniworld.

Australia A League

-Michael Enfield - Sydney - did not suit up as they drew 0-0 at home v Melbourne.

Austrian Bundesliga

-Damon Wilson - Kapfenberg - the league was off this week

English Championship

-Bobby Convey - Reading - played the first 85 minutes of a 2-0 home win over Plymouth.

-Jay DeMerit - Watford - played the full match in a 1-0 home win over Charlton.

-Marcus Hahnemann - Reading - went all 90 as usual in a 2-0 home win over Plymouth.

-Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - out injured long term, and the team lost at Wolverhampton 4-1.

English League One

-Jemal Johnson - MK Dons - on the bench but did not play as they beat Northampton 1-0 at home.

-Zak Whitbread - Millwall - started and played the entire match as they drew 1-1 at home against Southend.

Danish SAS Ligaen :

-Dan Califf - Midjtylland - went all 90 but they got beat at Copenhagen 3-1.

-Tally Hall - Esbjerg - did not play as they drew 1-1 at Randers.

-Lee Nguyen - Randers - did not play as they drew 1-1 at home against Esbjerg.

-Jeremiah White - Aarhus - started and played 81 minutes of a 2-1 home win over Brondby.

Norwegian Tippeligaen:

-Adin Brown - Aalesunds - league was off this past weekend.

-Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - league was off this past weekend.

-Troy Perkins - Valerenga - league was off this past weekend.

-Brian Waltrip - Molde - league was off this past weekend.

-Brian West - Fredrikstad - league was off this past weekend.

Norwegian Adeccoligaen:

-Matthew Allen - Bryne - lost at home 0-2 to Honefoss

-Clarence Goodson - Start - won 2-1 at home over Sparta Sarpsborg

-Joe Lapira - Nybergsund - won 2-1 at home over Kongsvinger

-Jay Needham - Alta - lost 5-4 at Haugesund

-Chris Rodd - Bryne - lost at home 0-2 to Honefoss

-Kyle Veris - Hodd - drew 1-1 at Lov Ham Bergen

-Cam Weaver - Haugesund - won 5-4 at home over Alta

Swedish Allsvenskan:

-Colin Burns - Ljungskile - won 0-1 at Helsingborgs

-Charlie Davies - Hammarby - just returning from the Olympics, and the team lost 2-4 at home against GAIS Goteborg.

-Ryan Raybould - Gelfe - lost 2-0 at Djurgardens

-Etchu Tabe - Ljungskile - won 0-1 at Helsingborgs

OPENING WEEKEND MATCHES:

English Premiership

-Clint Dempsey - Fulham - came on as a 81st minute sub but they lost 2-1 at newcomers Hull.

-Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - debuted in goal for his new team and won 4-2 over Manchester City.

-Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - just returning from the Olympics and did not dress as they beat Manchester City 4-2 at home.

-Tim Howard - Everton - went all 90 in goal but lost 2-3 at home to Blackburn. However, the winning goal was clearly offside.

-Eddie Johnson - Fulham - did not dress for the teams 2-1 loss at Hull.

-Jonathan Spector - West Ham - out injured long term, while the team won 2-1 at home over Wigan.

German 1 Bundesliga

-Bryan Arguez - Hertha Berlin - did not dress as they beat Eintracht Frankfurt 0-2 on the road.

-Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the distance at right fullback but they lost badly, 3-0 at Schalke.

-Matt Dallman - Armenia Bielefeld - Sat Aug 16 v Werder Bremen

-Kamani Hill - Wolfsburg - not in uniform as they won 2-1 at home over Koln.

-Neven Subotic - Borussia Dortmund - played all 90 and scored the winning goal, beating Bayer Leverkusen 2-3 on the road. He also got a Yellow Card. It was also his clubs the first opening day road win in 29 years!!

-Sal Zizzo - Hannover - not in the game day squad as they lost 3-0 at Schalke.

German 2 Bundesliga

-Gregg Berhalter - 1860 Munich - did not leave the bench as they lost 2-1 at Freiburg.

-Grover Gibson - Rot Weiss Ahlen - started, went 80 minutes and scored a goal in their 2-1 home win over Frankfurt.

-Heath Pearce - Hansa Rostock - most likely leaving, and the team plays Mon Aug 18 at Duisburg.

-Matt Taylor - Koblenz - just signed on Wednesday last week, shockingly got the start, played 62 minutes, and stunningly scored a goal as they beat Rot Weiss Oberhausen 3-0 at home!

-David Yelldell - Koblenz - played all 90 in goal and won 3-0 at home over Rot Weiss Oberhausen.

German Regionalliga Nord, Sud & West

-Ellis McLoughlin - Hertha Berlin II (Nord) - lost 0-2 at home to Wolfsburg II

-Tim Merritt - Oggersheim (West) - beat Kleve 3-2 at home

-Alfredo Morales - Hertha Berlin II (Nord) - lost 0-2 at home to Wolfsburg II

-Steve Purdy - 1860 Munich II (Sud) - won 1-4 at Waldhof Mannheim

-Luis Robles - Kaiserslautern II (West) - won 2-0 over Wormatia 08 Worms

-Preston Zimmerman - Hamburger II (Nord) - drew 1-1 at home against Plauen - probably headed out on loan.

Belgian Jupiler League

-Oguchi Onyewu - Standard - played all 90 and won 1-3 at Verbroedering Dender.

CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying News

The Toronto Globe & Mail says Team Canada has what it takes to end their World Cup drought. They have the players, but do they have the coaches and organization?

CONCACAF Champions League News

The Preliminary round begins on Tue Aug 26!

Canada & CSA News

The Toronto Sun runs an article about disagreements and critical public comments shooting back and forth between the countries men's & women's soccer teams. The article says this is bad thing. Then they side with the men. Ah yes, pour fuel on the fire. That always helps.

Mexico & FMF News

Milan are said to be interested in buying Barfa Marquez from Barcelona.

Mexican roster for World Cup qualifier on Aug 20 at home against Honduras:

G:

Jesus Corona - Tecos UAG

Guillermo Ochoa - America

Oswaldo Sanchez - Santos Laguna

D:

Rafael Marquez - Barcelona

Jonny Magallon - Guadalajara

Ricardo Osorio - Stuttgart

Carlos Salcido - PSV Eindhoven

Francisco Rodriguez - PSV Eindhoven

Aaron Galindo - Eintracht Frankfurt

Fausto Pinto - Pachuca

Edgar Castillo - Santos Laguna

M:

Gerardo Torrado - Cruz Azul

Pavel Pardo - Stuttgart

Luis Perez - Monterrey

Fernando Arce - Santos Laguna

Andres Guardado - Deportivo la Coruna

Leandro Augusto - Pumas UNAM

Francisco Torres - Santos Laguna

F:

Guillermo Franco - Villarreal

Omar Bravo - Deportivo la Coruna

Carlos Vela - Arsenal

Cuauhtemoc Blanco - Chicago Fire

Carlos Ochoa - Monterrey

Matias Vuoso - Santos Laguna

Giovanni dos Santos - Tottenham

Olympic Soccer News

FIFA.com does the Q & A with Argentina coach Sergio Batista. He has some bitchin hair.

Gregory Sica of Sports Illustrated on Argentina's charge toward a 2nd straight gold medal.

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Argie playmaker Juan Roman Riquelme.

FIFA's Olympic News Site

Olympic Soccer Scoreboard

Men's Quarterfinal Matches & Scores:

-Sat Aug 16

1 Nigeria 2-0 Cote d'Ivoire

2 Italy 2-3 Belgium

3 Argentina 2-1 Netherlands

4 Brazil 2-0 Cameroon

Advancing are 3 teams from Africa, 3 from Europe and 2 from South America.

Men's Semifinal Matches & Scores:

-Tue Aug 19

Nigeria v Belgium

Argentina v Brazil

-Final is Sat Aug 23

= = = = = =

Women's Quarterfinal Matches & Scores:

-Fri Aug 15

1 Brazil 2-1 Norway

2 Sweden 0-2 Germany

3 China 0-2 Japan

4 USA 2-1 Canada

Advancing are 3 from Europe, 2 from North America, 2 from Asia and 1 from South America.

Women's Semifinal Matches & Scores:

-Mon Aug 18

Brazil 4-1 Germany

Japan 2-4 USA

Women's Final Match & Score:

-Thu Aug 21

Brazil v USA

England News

You will be stunned to learn that Michael Owen is injured and missed the season opener for Newcastle.

The Guardian with their Premiership team-by-team season previews:

-Arsenal

-Aston Villa

-Blackburn

-Bolton

-Chelsea

-Everton

-Fulham

-Hull City

-Liverpool

-Manchester City

-Manchester United

-Middlesbrough

-Newcastle

-Portsmouth

-Stoke city

-Sunderland

-Tottenham

-West Brom

-West Ham

-Wigan

European News

GERMANY

FIFA.com with an article on a decent Schalke team who most people feel are the team most likely to challenge Bayern Munich for the title this season.

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian gives us the 2008 Bundesliga primer, as the league kicks off with a television rights squabble.

ITALY

Italy's surprise star at the Euro 08 tournament might have been Juventus defender Giorgio Chiellini, but he has sprained his right knee and could be out of action for 2 months.

Roma has signed forward Julio Baptista from Real Madrid.

FIFA.com has questions from readers that they posed to long time great player, now coach, Gianfranco Zola, to answer.

Reuters reports that national team coach Marcello Lippi regrets stepping down from the team after winning the 06 World Cup. And he is very glad to be back now.

Roma team president Franco Sensi has died. He ran the club for the past 15 years. But the past few years he has been president in name only, giving most responsibility to other members of his family, due to respiratory failure.

-The Football Italia blog has an article on a man many people loved.

Football Italia reports that the coach of Bari was beat up by fans of Lecce (the city where he is from). The two teams are long time bitter rivals.

Big Euro Club Matches This Weekend

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Aug 15

Bayern Munich 2-2 Hamburg

-Sun Aug 17

Amkar Perm 1-1 Spartak Moscow

Spanish Super Cup

Match & Score:

-Sun Aug 17 - 1st leg

Valencia 3-2 Real Madrid

-Sat Aug 23 - 2nd leg

Real Madrid v Valencia

UEFA Champions League

Third Qualifying Round - 2nd leg matches on Aug 26/27.

UEFA Cup

Second Qualifying Round - 1st leg matches Aug 14. 2nd leg matches on Aug 28. Here are the Matches, Scores and 2nd leg schedule.

Several American's were in 1st round action last Thursday. See Americans In Europe section above for details.

This Is The End

Does this guy look happy to be back in Seattle, or what?
