BREAKING NEWS: The NSC Minnesota Stars will ring in 2012 with the unveiling of a new logo, designed by our good Friend-In-Football Kevin Joseph, on Mon Jan 9 at 7:30pm at Brits Pub in downtown Minneapolis. See you there!

STARTERS

The 2012 NSCAA Convention will take place January 11-15 in Kansas City MO. Included in this will be the MLS SuperDraft on Thu Jan 12. du Nord will be there. Will you?

dN

Landon Donovan was in the starting lineup but Tim Howard stole the spotlight as he scored a goal for Everton! Yes he did! He put his foot through a slow roller just outside the 6 yard box and the wind took it the full length of the field and with one hop it went over the Bolton keepers head and into the net!!! See it right here.

-On the other hand Everton lost and you know Timmy would trade that fluke goal for a win every single time.

dN

Dallas has signed big strong Panama forward Blas Perez.

-If he can play as good as he always seems to play against the USA then MLS defenders will be in for a long season.

-On the negative side, this is his 15th team!

dN

Colorado is hoping to announce their new head coach on Thursday. That would be Dallas academy director Oscar Pareja.

-Nick Groke of the Denver Post with more on the story.

dN

Paul Tenorio of the Washington Post reports that MLS is trying to sign 15 year old prodigy Junior Flores.

-If you remember he lead the USA U17 team to a commanding performance last month a the Nike Invitational and a big win over Brazil.

-Dortmund is supposedly interested as well.

dN

Liverpool head coach Kenny Dalglish says that Luis Suarez's use of the word Negro to Patrice Evra was not a racial slur because Suarez's wife uses the word to the player regularly. So are we to suppose that Suarez's wife uses it to demean her husband? Its not the word, its how its used, what was the intent. Suarez intended it to irritate and insult Evra, not flatter. These arguments supporting Suaurez are a joke.

DU NORD AT THE CONTROLS

du Nord at the Controls - Tue Jan 3, 2011 - new music mix at Spotify

STORY OF THE DAY

Sandy Macaskill of the NY Times with a feature story on Clint Dempsey.

TEAM USA - EL EQUIPO DE TODOS

The annual January training camp is currently in effect in Phoenix AZ then moves to Carson CA, and ends with the game in Panama.

dN

Robert Jonas of Center Line Soccer talks to Chris Wondolowski about this training camp.

dN

International Friendlies

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Jan 21

USA v Venezuela - 8pm CT

Venue: University of Phoenix Stadium

-Wed Jan 25

Panama v USA - Time TBA

Venue: TBA

NOTE: Still no TV details for these two games. It would be a huge step backwards if they were not broadcast.

dN

USA Roster

G:

Bill Hamid - DC United

Sean Johnson - Chicago Fire SC

Nick Rimando - Real Salt Lake

D:

Geoff Cameron - Houston Dynamo

AJ DeLaGarza - LA Galaxy

Omar Gonzalez - LA Galaxy

George John - FC Dallas

Zach Loyd - FC Dallas

Michael Parkhurst - FC Nordsjaelland

Heath Pearce - CD Chivas USA

M:

Kyle Beckerman - Real Salt Lake

Ricardo Clark - Eintracht Frankfurt

Benny Feilhaber - New England Revolution

Jeff Larentowicz - Colorado Rapids

Brek Shea - FC Dallas

Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Teal Bunbury - Sporting Kansas City

CJ Sapong - Sporting Kansas City

Chris Wondolowski - San Jose Earthquakes

USA U23/OLYMPIC TEAM

Tickets go on sale Jan 11 for the Semifinals and Final of CONCACAF Olympic Qualifying in Kansas City.

DO YOU REALIZE

Apple Insider says that Apple and Google are interested in bidding for TV rights to the English Premier League.

-TV rights or internet/mobile rights?

-Thanks to Joe for the link.

HMMMMM, VERY INTERESTING

Raphael Honigstein at the BBC examines the winter break the Bundesliga takes (and a few other factors) and wonders if it doesn't help the German national team players be fresher for their national team.

PICTURE OF THE DAY

LD looking pretty snappy in his new blue #9.

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

General News

Ramona Shelburne of the ESPN feels that David Beckham re-singing with the Galaxy would be even more significant than his initial signing.

-I disagree almost completely with that theory, but it would be a fairly big moment.

The Federal Way Mirror talks to local player Kelyn Rowe who recently signed a Generation Adidas contract with the league.

dN

Player Transactions

-FC Dallas has signed 30 year olf Panamanian striker Blas Perez from now defunct Indios in Mexico's 2nd division.

-FC Dallas has signed 22 year old Colombian centerback Hernan Pertuz from Independiente Medellin.

-The Sounders officially signed fullback Marc Burch from DC United.

-The Crew has signed 31 year old Chilean attacking midfielder Milovan Mirosevic from Universidad Catolica.

-MLS makes Uruguaian attacking midfielder Enzo Martinez from UNC the 6th college player signed to a Generation Adidas contract this season.

dN

HOUSTON DYNAMO

Jose de Jesus Ortiz of the Chronicle writes that the Dynamo want centerback Eddie Robsinson to stay with the organization should he decide to retire, and apparently he is leaning in that direction.

PORTLAND TIMBERS

Word on the internets is that the Timbers signed forward Brent Richards from their academy team.

dN

The Timbs will begin preseason on Sat Jan 21.

TORONTO FC

TFC has re-signed their diminutive poacher Joao Plata.

dN

This is the new TFC second shirt:

MLS/USA RELATED RUMORS

Silly name of the day: Luca Toni

MLS STADIUMS

Elliot Almond of the San Jose Mercury News reports that a citizens group has successfully filed an appeal against the cities plan to issue building permits for the Earthquakes new stadium. The appeal will not be looked at for at least a couple of weeks.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Landon Donovan started and went the full 90 for Everton today.

dN

Hammarby and Gregg Berhalter have signed North Carolina college player forward Billy Schuler.

dN

Game Action:

ENGLAND - Premier League

Landon Donovan - Everton - Wed Jan 4 - went the full 90 but lost 1-2 v Bolton.

Tim Howard - Everton - Wed Jan 4 - played the whole game scoring an improbable goal but losing 1-2 v Bolton.

ENGLAND

Jonathan Wilson of the Guardian ponders Liverpool's home goal scoring struggles.

dN

Premier League Standings - Top 5 teams (20 games played)

48 Manchester City

45 Manchester United

42 Tottenham (19 GP)

37 Chelsea

36 Arsenal

SPAIN

Copa Del Rey - Round of 16

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Tue Jan 3

Mirandes 2-0 Racing Santander

Albacete 0-0 Athletic Bilaboa

Alcorcon 2-1 Levante

Real Madrid 3-2 Malaga

-Wed Jan 4

Real Sociedad 2-0 Mallorca

Barcelona 3-0 Osasuna

-Thu Jan 5

Cordoba v Espanyol

Valencia v Sevilla

ENDERS

Here's a great gift that @fittedsweats got me for Christmas. Its for my old Atari 2600 set up.
