DaMarcus Beasley is out of PSV!!! He is being loaned to Manchester City!

~ ~ ~ ~

ADDITION: Kansas City Wizards founder Lamar Hunt has announced that Hunt Sports Group has sold its interest in the Wizards to Kansas City-based OnGoal LLC, a group of six investors led by Cerner Corporation executives Neal Patterson and Cliff Illig.

Read the Official Press Release

~ ~ ~ ~

MLS last tonight:

Kansas City 2-2 New York - Edson Buddle played the second 45 minutes of last Saturdays game for New York and scored 3 big goals in a 6-0 win. He played 45 minutes last night but it went in totally the opposite direction for him and his team. He got the start this time, but came out at half time with no goals and a groin strain. Now word on how bad. And KC defender Nick Garcia only last about 15 minutes before he came out with the same malady. Scott Sealy scored first for KC. NY's Amado Guevara played Houdini to amazingly weave thru the KC defense and pass to John Wolyniec for an equalizing goal. NY then took the lead on a great Youri Djorkaeff cross to Todd Dunivant, only to give up the tying goal to Josh Wolff in the 71st minute. KC is one point ahead of NY (30-29) for the 4th and final playoff spot in the Eastern standings. Both keepers, Bo Oshoniyi for KC and Tony Meolo for NY, made a couple of awesome saves.

Salt Lake 1-0 Los Angeles - Jeff Cunningham strikes again, this time in full afro, as LA keeper Kevin Hartman plays shitty shortstop and lets a slow roller go between his legs cuz he's too busy to bend his knees!

Chicago 2-2 Houston - It's the 58th minute, Wade Barrett stole the ball in midfield for Houston, and tips the ball over to teammate Dwayne DeRosario who is standing in the center circle. DeRo looks up and spots Chicago keeper Zach Thornton off his line. DDR winds up and lets fly with a high arcing shot. GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAL! A 60 yarder! His teammates mob him! Awesome stuff! Big Zach was completely embarrassed by it, but his teammate Andy Herron bailed him out by scoring on a PK in the 75th minute to tie the match up for Chicago. The other goals came in the first half from Chicago's Justin Mapp and Houston's Chris Wondolowski.

Colorado 0-2 Dallas - Huuuuuuuge win for the slumping Burn, and on the road to boot. Dallas got goals by Ramon Nunez in the first half, and Richard Mulrooney in the second, both set up by Ronnie O'Brien. Colorado is turning to crap. Guess they jumped the gub on that contract extension for coach Fernando Clavijo.

~ ~ ~ ~

Frank Dell'apa at Soccernet, says Caribbean players have had decent success in MLS, but for some reason most Jamaicans have not.

~ ~ ~ ~

Looks like New England is on the verge of signing Mexican forward Jose Manuel Abundis from Toluca. He is out of contract. The 33 year old has seen his better days, but only a couple seasons ago was banging in lots of goals. Who knows if he has anything left to give, but this team sure needs the help at forward.

~ ~ ~ ~

The Toronto Star is reporting that the Bank Of Montreal has bought the naming rights to the new stadium in Toronto for $27 million dollars Canadian (24.3 US) over 10 years. Just a little better than Chicago got ($7.5 million for 10 years). Can someone please tell me again why Chicago fired Peter Wilt? I also find it comical that the Bank Of Montreal bought naming rights in Toronto.

~ ~ ~ ~

In more crazy Toronto rumor news, yesterday I wrote that Johan Cruyff could be an assistant coach to Mo Johnston, but last night during the KC game telecast, the announcers spread the rumor that former KC head coach Bob Gansler would become an assistant in Toronto. Keeps on spinnin'.

~ ~ ~ ~

The South Jersey Philly MLS expansion project will get an update tomorrow: Rowan University President Donald Farish is holding a press briefing (at 10am central time on Friday Sept 1) to update reporters about the Rowan West/Major League Soccer project announced in March. This is not a major announcement, but simply an update to try to put an end to rumors and to explain the new direction in which the project is moving.

~ ~ ~ ~

Chivas USA has officially added two new players to their roster - both signed from Guadalajara Chivas in Mexico. 20 year old forward Jesus Morales has already suited up and started last Saturdays game v Houston and had a great first 30 minutes, while 28 year old midfielder/defender Johnny Garcia just received his work visa and is now eligible.

~ ~ ~ ~

Glen Davis of the Houston Chronicle with a look at the potential of an Argentine talent pipeline to MLS.

~ ~ ~ ~

Ian Plenderleith of Matchnight examines the wrath of Landon Donovan which was hoisted upon the Barra Brava in DC last Saturday.

~ ~ ~ ~

Another American in Europe has lost his coach very early in the new season. Oguchi Onyewu's Standard Liege of Belgium have fired coach Johan Boskamp as the team earned only 2 points from four games.

~ ~ ~ ~

USL First Division matches this weekend (starting tonight) - many of these matches have huge playoff implications seeing as the regular season only has two more weeks left:

Thursday

Portland v Montreal

Vancouver v Charleston

Friday

Rochester v Virginia Beach

Miami v Minnesota

Seattle v Charleston

Saturday

Atlanta v Rochester

Sunday

Puerto Rico v Minnesota

Toronto v Virginia Beach

Portland v Charleston

~ ~ ~ ~

USL First Division Table (top 6 make playoffs):

47 Montreal

40 Rochester

39 Vancouver

38 Charleston

35 Miami

34 Seattle

- - - - - -

32 Atlanta

32 Virginia Beach

31 Puerto Rico

27 Portland

27 Minnesota

25 Toronto

~ ~ ~ ~

Looks like Juventus are going to negotiate their way to a lesser penalty for match fixing. The deal will still have them demoted to Serie B, but have less points deducted to start the season.

~ ~ ~ ~

Eurocentric Transfer News (with the summer deadline today you can expect quite a lot of action):

-West Ham will pull off a massive upset and sign two Argentina stars, forward Carlos Tevez & defesive midfielder Javier Mascherano from Corinthians.

-Long time MLS fans will remember Junior Agogo who just signed with Nottingham Forest from Bristol.

-Portsmouth will sign striker Andy Cole from Manchester City.

-PSV will sign worn out Dutch forward Patrick Kluivert from Valencia.

-Spanish radio station Cadena Ser is reporting that Inter Milan will send Adriano to Real Madrid in Exchange for Ronaldo and lots of cash.

-Newcastle signed American/Italian forward Giuseppe Rossi to a 1 year loan deal from Manchester United.

-AC Milan signed Brazilian striker Ricardo Oliveira from Real Betis.

-Tottenham signed French midfielder Steed Malbranque from Fulham, who also received English midfielder Wayne Routledge as part of the deal.

-Sunderland new coach Roy Keane made his first signing an old friend, as in Trinidad & Tobago forward Dwight Yorke from Sydney.

-Real Madrid will sign Spanish midfielder Jose Antonio Reyes from Arsenal after all.

-Tottenham signed French defender Pascal Chimbonda from Wigan.

-Newcastle will sign Australian forward Mark Viduka from Middlesbrough.

-Real Betis signed defender & Swiss captain Johann Vogel from AC Milan.

-PSV signed Dutch defender Jan Kromkamp from Liverpool.

~ ~ ~ ~

Tons of Euro 2008 qualifying matches Saturday:

Group A

Serbia v Azerbaijan

Poland v Finland

Group B

Scotland v Faroe Islands

Georgia v France

Italy v Lithuania

Group C

Moldova v Greece

Malta v Bosnia-Herzegovina

Hungary v Norway - same day delayed at 3pm central on FSC

Group D

Czech Republic v Wales

Slovakia v Cyprus

Germany v Ireland

Group E

Estonia v Israel

England v Andorra - delayed at 10pm Tues Sept 5 on FSC

Group F

Spain v Liechtenstein

Northern Ireland v Iceland

Latvia v Sweden

Group G

Romania v Bulgaria - live at 1pm central on FSC

Belarus v Albania

Luxembourg v Netherlands
