STARTERS

Don Garber will take calls on Fox Football Fone-In show on Mon Oct 26 from 6-8pm Central. Jesse Marsch of Chivas USA is also scheduled to appear.

dN

Minnesota Thunder GM Djorn Buchholz has left the team to become CEO of the Austin Aztex. On a personal note Buchholz has been a fantastic person to deal with at the team and will be greatly missed by me as a fan of the team. A huge congrats goes out to him! (see more below in the team's section)

dN

US Soccer has confirmed that the USA will play a 2nd friendly in Europe during the November international break - Sat Nov 14 v Slovakia in Bratislava. Then they travel to Denmark as previously announced to play on Wed Nov 18 in Aarhus.

dN

USA U17's lost their first game on the World Cup 2-1 to Spain, even though they played a man up from just 63 seconds into the game and scored first. Sad.

MLS

Week 32 - The Final Round

Matches & Scores:

-Thu Oct 22

Chicago Fire 1-0 Chivas USA - CF goal by Eduardo Llilingston(OG).

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

Attendance: 17,537

-Saturday, October 24

New York Red Bulls 5-0 Toronto FC - NYRB goals by Macoumba Kandji(2), Juan Pablo Angel(2) & Matthew Mbuta.

Venue: Giants Stadium - East Rutherford NJ

Attendance: 21,305

Kansas City Wizards 2-2 DC United - KCW goals by Kei Kamara & Claudio Lopez(PK). DCU goals by Jaime Moreno(PK) & Julius James.

Venue: Community America Ballpark - Kansas City KS

Attendance: 10,385

Real Salt Lake 3-0 Colorado Rapids - RSL goals by Robbie Findley(2) & Yura Movsisyan.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 18,675

Seattle Sounders FC 2-1 FC Dallas - SSFC goals by Nate Jaqua & Brad Evans. FCD goal by Atiba Harris.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 33,108

Los Angeles Galaxy 2-0 San Jose Earthquakes - LAG goals by Bobby Burling(OG) & Landon Donovan.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 27,000

-Sunday, October 25

Chivas USA 3-2 Houston Dynamo - HD goals by Andrew Hainault, Dominic Oduro & Abe Thompson. CUSA goals by Michael Lahoud & Eduaro Llilingston(PK).

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 14,523

Columbus Crew 0-1 New England Revolution - NER goal by Jeff Larentowicz.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 16,797

dN

EJECTIONS:

Fred - DC United - Red Card

dN

The average attendance for the weekends games was 19,916. Not bad at all.

dN

My very snarky pal Bill Archer did a great recap of the whole weekend in chronological order over at his blog on Big Soccer!

-Someday hopefully soon when all the dust settles, Bill and I will be partners on a new radio show.

dN

In the mean spirited way for which I am known, I had to laugh out loud this weekend while listening to one of the many podcasts that feature MLS. This particular show had a "correspondent" on from Toronto who was all but bragging about how his team TFC would make the playoffs because their opponent in the final round was a "Kansas City U14 Girls team". How rich is that coming from a guy who's team has never made the playoffs, and for all intents and purposes has never done SHIT in their 3 years of exsistence. Where do guys like this get off with the overly smug attitude? It's one thing to be funny, but another to be completely delusional. In the end his team lost to those young Girls 5-0 in a game that they absolutely had to win, and their teams best player Dwayne De Rosario called "the biggest game in TFC history"! I can't wait to hear the excuses from the expert correspondent now. So now like most of us have said from day 1, Toronto needs to go find a real coach, some real defenders and a couple of real forwards, then we can talk playoffs. Their true fans deserve a lot better than this crap.

dN

Some teams have begun announcing their seasons end awards:

Kansas City Wizards 2009 Team Awards:

Team MVP - Josh Wolff

Golden Boot - Josh Wolff (11 goals)

Humanitarian of the Year - Jimmy Conrad

- - - - -

Chivas USA 2009 Season Ending Award Winners:

Most Valuable Player - Zach Thornton

Defender of the Year - Jonathan Bornstein

Spirit of Chivas USA - Claudio Suarez

Humanitarian of the Year - Jesse Marsch

Golden Boot - Eduardo Lillingston (8 goals)

- - - - -

LA Galaxy annual team awards:

Most Valuable Player - Landon Donovan

Golden Boot - Landon Donovan (12 goals)

Humanitarian of the Year - Todd Dunivant

Defender of the Year - Donovan Ricketts

MLS PLAYOFFS

Here are your 1st Round playoff matches, home and away series:

EASTERN CONFERENCE

1st Leg

-Sat Oct 31

Real Salt Lake (4) v Columbus Crew (1) - 5pm Central on FSC

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

-Sat Oct 31

New England Revolution (3) v Chicago Fire (2) - 3pm Central

Venue: Gillette Stadium - Foxborough MA

2nd Leg

- Date TBA

Columbus Crew (1) v Real Salt Lake (4)

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

- Date TBA

Chicago Fire (2) v New England Revolution (3)

Venue: Toyota Park - Bridgeview IL

dN

WESTERN CONFERENCE

1st Leg

-Thu Oct 29

Seattle Sounder FC (3) v Houston Dynamo (2) - 9pm central on ESPN2

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

-Sun Nov 1

Chivas USA (4) v Los Angeles Galaxy (1) - 4pm Central

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

2nd Leg

- Date TBA

Houston Dynamo (2) v Seattle Sounder FC (3)

Venue: Robertson Stadium - Houston TX

-Sun Nov 8

Los Angeles Galaxy (1) v Chivas USA (4)

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson CA

MLS GOLDEN BOOT WINNER

The Leagues Top Goal Scorer:

17 Jeff Cunningham - Dallas

dN

Who had that one in the preseason pool? I bet John Carver had him picked!

dN

The rest of the top poachers:

16 Conor Casey - Colorado

TIED (listed alpha)

12 Juan Pablo Angel - New York

12 Landon Donovan - Los Angeles

12 Robbie Findley - Salt Lake

12 Fredy Montero - Seattle

12 Guillermo Barros Schelotto - Columbus

TIED (listed alpha)

11 Dwayne DeRosario - Toronto

11 Ryan Johnson - San Jose

11 Josh Wolff - Kansas City

MLS COACHES HOT SEAT

Will any of these 5 be at the helm of their team next season?

1 Tom Soehn - DC

2 Chris Cummins - Toronto

3 Frank Yallop - San Jose

4 Jason Kreis - Salt Lake

5 Denis Hamlet - Chicago

dN

And 2 teams are already looking for a coach: New York & Kansas City.

MLS FAIR PLAY AWARD

The league gives out this award every year for players who go above and beyond to show sportsman ship. To me this is the award that should go to the players that have the most minutes played with the least amounty of fouls committed and Yellow Cards. Getting a Red Card should knock you off the list immediately. So I went ahead and did all my calculations and came up with this list of 3 who fit my criteria:

1 Todd Dunivant - Los Angeles

2 Jordan Harvey - Colorado

3 Patrick Nyarko - Chicago

Then I went to do my official voting for MLS post season awards, and to my huge surprise NONE were on the list of candidates! Now I am left to ponder, who came up with the list?

USA @ U17 WORLD CUP

A tough loss in game 1 is not the way they hoped to start.

dN

Starting 11 v Spain:

G

Earl Edwards

D

Zachary Herold

Perry Kitchen

Tyler Polak

Jared Watts

M

Marlon Duran

Luis Gil

Nick Palodichuk

Alex Shinsky

F

Stefan Jerome

Jack McInerney

dN

The game could not have started better for the USA as Spain had a player sent off in the 2nd minute for pulling down a USA player on a break away. But unfortunately Spain didn't seem to even acknowledge that they had only 10 players. If the announcer didn't tell you, you certainly could not have noticed from the action on the field.

Spain's first goal was allowed even though the player who made the last pass had been a full yard offside.

dN

Group Stage Matches & Scores:

-Mon Oct 26

Spain 2-1 USA - Spa goals by Borja & Pablo Sarabia. USA goal by Jack McInerney.

-Thu Oct 29

USA v Malawi - 10am Central on ESPNU

-Sun Nov 1

USA v UAE - 9am Central on ESPNU

You can also watch all 3 games online at ESPN360.com

dN

Official Team Blog

dN

Group E

Malawi

Spain

United Arab Emirates

United States of America

MINNESOTA THUNDER

Inside Minnesota Soccer reports that General Manager Djorn Buchholz has resigned and will become CEO of the Austin Astex in the same division. IMS also does a Q & A with Buchholz.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Jozy Altidore with 2 giant errors in one day, and he didn't even make the subs bench for Hull this weekend. First off, he showed up late for the game (they are scheduled to arrive 90 minutes before kickoff), and then after the game he went on Twitter and told his followers why he was left off in an apology note, which the coach reacted to very badly saying that discipline is kept in house and not shared with the public. Not good for Jozy. He is being fined by the team for his mistakes.

dN

Clint Dempsey got the tying goal for Fulham at Manchester City this weekend, and our friend BQ sent us a link to some game photos at the official Fulham website - I picked out the ones of our man Deuce for you to enjoy:

I Am Quite The Gritty Player

Who? Me? Did I Do That? Of Course I Did!

Congratulations My Man, Job Well Done

Let's Say You And Me Dance In Celebration Then

dN

Where in the world is Dan Califf? He has not been on the Midtjylland game sheet in weeks, and I have not seen any mention of an injury etc. Anybody?

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

DENMARK - Superliga

Benny Feilhaber - AGF Aarhus - started and went 87 minutes but they lost 0-2 at home to Nordsjaelland.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - went the full 90 as they won 0-2 at Aarhus.

Marcus Tracy - AaB - came on as a sub in the 81st minute as they lost 1-2 at home against Brondby.

Jeremiah White - AGF Aarhus - came on as a sub in the 65th minute but they lost 0-2 at home against Nordsjaelland.

ENGLAND - Premiership

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - went the full 90, scored the tying goal as they drew 2-2 at Manchester City.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the whole match in goal as they drew 1-1 at Wolverhampton.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance but they lost again, this time 3-2 at Bolton.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played the whole match as they drew 2-2 at home against Arsenal.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Milton Keynes - started but was subbed out at half time as they lost 3-1 at Southampton.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - went the full 90 as they beat Montpellier 3-0 at home.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - played the entire match as they drew 0-0 at home against Koln.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the distance as they won 1-0 at home over Stuttgart.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Kenny Cooper - 1860 Munich - came on as a sub in the 66th when they were 3-0 down, but they still lost 3-2 at Frankfurt.

David Yelldell - Koblenz - played the full 90 as they won 1-2 on the road at Greuther Furth.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - went the distance, got a Yellow Card, and scored a goal, but they drew 4-4 at home against AGOVV Apeldoorn.

NORWAY - Tippeligaen

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - started and went 89 minutes of a 2-0 home win over Bodo Glimt.

Hunter Freeman - Start - played all 90, got a Yellow Card and lost 3-1 at Tromso.

Clarence Goodson - Start - played the full 90 and lost 3-1 at Tromso.

Troy Perkins - Valerenga - went the distance but lost at home 1-3 to Sadefjord.

NORWAY - Adeccoligaen

Joe Lapira - Nybergsund - went the full 90 but lost0-2 at home to Moss.

Jay Needham - Alta - started and was subbed out in the 73rd as they drew 0-0 at Lov Ham Bergen.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - started and went 85 minutes as they beat Halmstad 2-1 at home.

SWEDEN - Superettan

Etchu Tabe - Ljungskile - went the full 90 as they won big at home 3-0 over Angelholms.

dN

Coming Up:

PORTUGAL

Greg Garza - Sporting - Tue Oct 27 at Guimaraes

Kamani Hill - Guimaraes - Tue Oct 27 v Sporting

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Game Action:

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the full 90 and they won 1-0 at home over San Luis

Jose Francisco Torres - Pachuca - started and played 76 minutes as they won 1-0 at home againt Indios.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - started but was subbed off at half time as they lost 1-0 at Pachuca.

EUROPE

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Portugal national team coach Carlos Quieroz.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES

-Sun Oct 25

Liverpool 2-0 Manchester United - considering everything this was kind of a stunner, or just the righting of the ships?

Schalke 3-3 Hamburg - last weekend we saw #1 v #2 finish a very boring 0-0, so this is more like it, yet while Hamburg stays at #2, Schalke drops to #4.

Marseille v Paris Saint-Germain - the game was postponed due to a rash of H1N1 diagnoses in the PSG team. So instead of a game we just had some idiot fans of both teams fighting!

Fenerbahce 3-1 Galatasaray - the win gives us a new #1 in Turkey.

ARGENTINA

The biggest derby in the Western Hemisphere:

-Sun Oct 25

River Plate 1-1 Boca Juniors - two mediocre teams end up predictably tied.

U17 WORLD CUP NIGERIA

The official web site

dN

Group Stage

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Oct 24

Nigeria 3-3 Germany - Nig goals by Stanley Okoro, Kenneth Omeruo & Edafe Egbedi. Ger goals by Lennart Thy, Shkodran Mustafi & Mario Goetze.

Brazil 3-2 Japan - Bra goals by Guilherme, Neymar & Wellington. Jap goals by Yoshiaki Takagi & Kenyu Sugimoto.

Honduras 0-1 Argentina - Arg goal by Sergio Araujo.

Mexico 0-2 Switzerland - Swi goals by Pajtim Kasami & Jose Rodriguez.

-Sun Oct 25

Iran 2-0 Gambia - Ira goals by Payam Sadeghian & Kaveh Rezaei.

Colombia 2-1 Netherlands - Col goals by Fabian Castillo & Deiner Cordoba. Net goal by Oguzhan Ozyakyp.

Turkey 1-0 Burkina Faso - Tur goal by Muhammet Demir.

Costa Rica 1-1 New Zealand - CR goal by Joel Campbell. NE goals by Michael Built.

-Mon Oct 26

United Arab Emirates 2-0 Malawi - UAE goals by Marwan Al Saffar & Mohammad Sebil.

Spain 2-1 USA - Spa goals by Borja & Pablo Sarabia. USA goal by Jack McInerney.

Uruguay 1-3 S Korea - Uru goal by Sebastian Gallegos(PK). SK goals by Nam Seung Woo, Son Heung Min & Lee Jong Ho.

Algeria 0-1 Italy - Ita goal by Federico Carraro.

-Tue Oct 27

Argentina v Germany

Nigeria v Honduras

Switzerland v Japan

Brazil v Mexico

-Wed Oct 28

Netherlands v Gambia

Iran v Colombia

New Zeland v Burkina Faso

Turkey v Costa Rica

dN

Standings

PODCASTS

This weeks edition of the Major League Soccer Talk Podcast "features interviews with Tony Meola, Tab Ramos and Youri Djorkaeff about the end of an era at Giants Stadium, the home of so many soccer dreams and Red Bull New York." Download or listen here.

ENDERS

Our Friend IN Futbol, Bart, who I believe still lives in the Phillipines, sent this amazing video clip of the goalkeeper from SMU scoring a game winning goal from 95 yards!
