STARTERS

Herculeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeez! Herculez Gomez has scored for the 4th game in a row for The Sweet Potato Makers!

dN

Carlos Bocanegra scored the game winner for Rennes, with his foot! Who knew he had one?!?!? I thought he only scored with his head.

dN

Barcelona choked on a road draw with Real Madrid won on Saturday moving them into the league lead on goal differential. The showdown between the two happens on Sun Apr 11 at the Bernabeu.

dN

Is this the USA first shirt? I am going with yes!

BIG CLUB MATCHES THIS WEEKEND

-Sat Mar 6

Real Madrid 3-2 Sevilla - this win combined with a Barca tie gives RM the new lead in Spain.

Fiorentina 1-2 Juventus - stick a fork in Fiore, they are done, while Juve hang in there.

Roma 1-1 Milan - neither could gain ground on league leader Inter who also drew.

Werder Bremen 2-2 Stuttgart - a stalemate sees neither gain on the top teams.

-Sun Mar 7

Bordeaux 1-1 Montpellier - #1 v #2 still tied, now at 52 points!

Belenenses v Sporting - the lesser Lisbon derby

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Round of 16 2nd Leg Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Fiorentina v Bayern Munich (1-2) - live at 1:30pm Central on Fox Soccer Channel

Arsenal v Porto (1-2) - delayed at 4pm Central on Fox Soccer Channel

-Wed Mar 10

Manchester United v Milan (3-2) - live at 1:30pm Central on Fox Soccer Channel

Real Madrid v Lyon (0-1) - delayed at 4pm Central on Fox Soccer Channel

dN

Paul Doyle of the Guardian looks at the chances of Lyon advancing in the CL. That could ring in a new era of French football.

dN

Arensal will be without captain Cesc Fabregas due to a hamstring injury.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Quarterfinal 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Columbus Crew v Toluca - live at 7pm Central on FSC

-Wed Mar 10

Marathon v UNAM Pumas

Comunicaciones v Pachuca

-Thu Mar 11

Arabe Unido v Cruz Azul

TRAGEDY IN HAITI

Michael Rand of the Minneapolis Star Tribune has a second report from former USA and international soccer player Tony Sanneh in Haiti giving it his all.

Connect now with The Sanneh Foundation.

STUART HOLDEN

The Mirror reports that even the coach of the Dutch national team thinks his own player was way out of line on the tackle that broke Holden's leg.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

Adam Spangler of This Is American Soccer does a comprehensive Q & A with one of my favorite "media" people in American soccer today - Greg Seltzer. Nice!

WHY?

How big of an idiot is John Terry? He went out and got a new tattoo last week on his bicep that is a replica of the England captain's armband! Wow!

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Has anyone else noticed that ESPN Soccernet has drastically cut their MLS coverage. I have.

dN

Gareth Wheeler of Slam Sports kind of mocks Toronto FC for chasing after the hosting rights to MLS Cup when they have not even improved their roster for this season yet.

dN

Don Ruiz of the Olympian writes that Seattle has signed Blaise Nkufo to challenge Nate Jaqua for the starting job up top.

dN

Buzz Carrick of 3rd Degree takes us with him to FC Dallas training last week.

dN

The Jackson Clarion Ledger with an article on their native son Chicago Fire midfielder Justin Mapp.

-He has been a pro 8 years now, but outside of a few moments he has failed to live up to expectations.

dN

Colorado has finally officially announced a new 3 year contract extension for Conor Casey.

The Rapids are also in London this week, training at Arsenal.

dN

Shawn Mitchell of the Columbus Dispatch gives us his prediction on the 24 man roster for the Crew on opening day.

dN

Jonathan Tannenwald of Philly.com reports that the Union has signed a loan deal with America de Cali for 18 year old Colombian attacking midfielder Roger Torres.

Kerith Gabriel also of Philly.com with an article on Union rookie JT Noone, and a short Q & A with Fred.

CSN Philly with an article on Union defender Michael Orozco.

dN

Brian Lewis of the NY Post talks to Red Bulls Academy top prospect Juan Agudelo about possibly signing with the senior team.

dN

Frank Dell'apa of the Boston Globe with word on a couple of New England Revolution midfield trialists.

MLS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT

The current deal expired on Jan 31, 2010, but the two sides agreed to originally extend it until Feb 12, and a further 13 days to Feb 25. And now that Feb 25 has come and gone with no new deal being finished, we enter the Twilight Zone.

dN

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet with the latest negotiation news, that he sees as positive.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

Philadelphia, New York, Toronto & Los Angeles have bid to host the 2010 MLS Cup final.

dN

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com reports that MLS is mandating that all games this year be shot in High Definition.

MLS RUMORS

Well it looks as though Dallas is not 100% sure of Dario Sala as their #1 keeper and have acquired the rights to Kevin Hartman from Kansas City.

dN

Defensive midfielder Carl Robinson appears to be out of Toronto, and will get a chance in New York.

-Paul James of Toronto's Globe & Mail comments.

dN

Soccer 365 with today's other tidbits.

dN

Liverpool centerback Jamie Carragher has stated that if he is not going to play for Liverpool, then he wants to leave, and he wants to play in MLS.

-Like many other European veterans I suspect Carragher will use the threat to try and keep his place with his current team. (see Ze Roberto et al)

MLS PRESEASON GAMES

San Jose is training in England and today they beat the reserves from West Ham 2-0. A West Ham Own Goal and Ryan Johnson provided the scoring.

-There other 2 matches in London will be against Tottenham and Colorado, who are training at Arsenal.

dN

Chicago beat Dallas 3-0 on Sunday in Jackson MS. The Fire got goals from Collins John, Marco Pappa & Julio Martinez.

USSF DIVISION 2

Oregon Fox 12 TV has a Q & A with Portland owner Merritt Paulson.

SOCCER IN AMERICA

I kid you not, the Oregonian has published a Soccer 101 article.

-I don't know if I should be happy or bummed.

USA U20 TEAM

Justin Rodriguez of ESPN Soccernet with an article on youngster Sebastian Lletget at the West Ham academy.

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

Michelle Kaufman of the Miami Herald looks at Bob Bradley's probable WC squad.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

LANDON DONOVAN

Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated goes to Liverpool to see how life is treating Landon Donovan.

And if Everton don't have the kind of money to buy Landon Donovan, they how about Chelsea. That is what the rumor says.

The BBC has post game words and video with Landon Donovan about returning to the LA Galaxy after next weeks game with Everton.

Glenn Davis now writing at Fox Sports Houston urges Donovan to find a way to stay at Everton.

dN

Steve Davis of Daily Soccer Fix takes in Fulham this past weekend.

dN

Carlos Bocanegra got his second goal in a week, this time for his club Rennes.

dN

Yura Movsisyan made his debut at Rander going the full 90 as the second half of their season resumed.

dN

Steve Cherundolo returned from his broken shoulder as a second half sub.

dN

Young 18 year old centerback Gale Agbossoumonde made the bench for the first time at Braga in Portugal, and even though he did not play, that is a very big step.

dN

Rico Clark was an unused sub again.

dN

With Benny Feilhaber out injured, AGF opened the second half of the season very poorly getting pasted 5-0 at Kobenhavn.

Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365 talked to Feilhaber about his injury.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - FA Cup Quarterfinals

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance and won 2-4 at Reading.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Jozy Altidore - Hull City - came on as a sub in the 62nd minute but lost 5-1 at Everton.

Landon Donovan - Everton - came on as a sub in the 70th minute, scored a goal and set up another as they cruised to a 5-1 home win over Hull City.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - in goal as usual but lost at home 0-1 to Manchester United.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the full 90 winning 5-1 at home over Hull.

Jonathan Spector - West Ham - played the whole game but lost at home 1-2 to Bolton.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Jay DeMerit - Watford - went the distance but lost 2-0 at Derby County.

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - came on as a half time sub as they won at home 2-0 over Leicester City.

ENGLAND - League One

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - went 82 minutes of a scoreless home draw with Carlisle United.

DENMARK - Superliga - the season has now resumed after the winter break.

Yura Movsisyan - Randers - went the full 90 as they drew 0-0 at Esbjerg.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Rennes - went the distance as scored the games only goal as they won 1-0 at home over Monaco.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - started, got a Yellow Card, and lasted 64 minutes as they lost 3-0 at Dortmund.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - returned from his shoulder injury as a 79th minute sub in a desperate 1-2 road win at Freiburg.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

David Yelldell - Koblenz - finally back in goal after a long time out injured, but lost at Oberhausen 2-0.

Greece - Super League

Eddie Johnson - Aris Thessalonika - came on as a sub in the 80th minute as they drew 1-1 at Kavala.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the full 90 minutes but lost at Den Bosch 2-1.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - started and played 64 minutes as they won 3-1 at home against St Mirren.

Maurice Edu - Rangers - came on as a sub in the 64th minute as they won at home 3-1 over St Mirren.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

ENGLAND - Championship League

Kenny Cooper - Plymouth Argyle - Tue Mar 9 at Queens Park Rangers.

Jay DeMerit - Watford - Tue Mar 9 v Swansea City

Frank Simek - Sheffield Wednesday - Tue Mar 9 at West Bromwich Albion

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - Tue Mar 9 at Tranmere

DENMARK - Superliga - the season has now resumed after the winter break.

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - Mon Mar 8 v AaB

Chris Rolfe - AaB - Mon Mar 8 at Nordsjaelland

Marcus Tracy - AaB - Mon Mar 8 at Nordsjaelland

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - Mon Mar 8 v Fortuna Sittard

SCOTLAND - Premier League

DaMarcus Beasley - Rangers - Tue Mar 9 at Kilmarnock

Maurice Edu - Rangers - Tue Mar 9 at Kilmarnock

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - UANL Tigres - went the full 90, got a Yellow Card, but won 0-1 at Indios while playing the final 30 minutes with 9 men.

Herculez Gomez - Pueblo - went the distance, scoring the games first goal, but get blitzed after that 4-1 at Pumas.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - played the full 90, got a Yellow Card, and lost 3-0 at Monterrey.

Marco Vidal - Indios Juarez - went the full 90 but lost at home 0-1 to Tigres.

ENGLAND

Rory Smith of the Telegraph had an American point out to him a big flaw in the English game.

-And we are talking something other than the fact that beyond a couple of teams your team has absolutely no chance of winning the title when the season starts each year.

dN

Barry Glendinning of the Guardian with Five things we learned about football this weekend.

dN

Simon Kuper of the Financial Times gives his take on the proposed supporters purchase of Manchester United.

-Yeah, it's not gonna happen.

dN

FA CUP - Quarterfinals

-Sat Mar 6

Portsmouth 2-0 Birmingham

Fulham 0-0 Tottenham

-Sun Mar 7

Reading 2-4 Aston Villa

Chelsea 2-0 Stoke City

Replay

-Wed Mar 24

Fulham v Tottenham

Semifinals

-Sat Apr 10

Aston Villa v Chelsea

Fulham/Tottenham v Portsmouth

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (29 of 38 games played)

63 Manchester United - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 0-1 at Wolverhampton

61 Chelsea - 28 Played - Last: In FA Cup

61 Arsenal - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 3-1 v Burnley

49 Tottenham - 28 Played - Last: In the FA Cup

49 Manchester City - 27 played - Last: No game this weekend

- - - - -

48 Liverpool - Next: Mon mar 8 at Wigan

45 Aston Villa - 26 played - Next: In the FA Cup

SPAIN

With a win and a Barca draw Real Madrid takes the league lead on goal differential +47 to +45!

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on the new #1 and the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

dN

Phil Ball of ESPN Soccernet on the roar of Real Madrid, and the rest of La Liga this weekend.

dN

Top La Liga Team Standings (25 of 38 games played)

62 Real Madrid - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 3-2 v Sevilla

62 Barcelona - Last: Sat Mar 6 D 2-2 at Almeria

46 Valencia - Next: Mon Mar 8 v Racing Santander

43 Sevilla - Last: Sat Mar 6 L 3-2 at Real Madrid

- - - - -

43 Mallorca - Last: Sun Mar 7 W 3-0 v Sporting Gijon

41 Deportivo La Coruna - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 3-1 v Tenerife

40 Athletic Bilbao - Last: Sun Mar 7 W 2-0 v Valladolid

FRANCE

The top 5 teams all managed to tie on the same weekend. Who is the newly wealthy who had money on that?

dN

FIFA.com has a Q & A with France and Manchester United fullback Patrice Evra.

dN

Top Ligue 1 Team Standings (27 of 38 games played)

52 Bordeaux (24 played) - Last: Sun Mar 7 D 1-1 v Montpellier

52 Montpellier - vt: Sun Mar 7 D 1-1 at Bordeaux

50 Lyon - Last: Sat Mar 6 D 0-0 at Bolougne

- - - - -

49 Marseille (26 played) - Last: Sun Mar 7 D1-1 v Lorient

48 Lille - Last: Sat Mar 6 D 1-1 at St Etienne

48 Auxerre - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 1-0 v Valenciennes

GERMANY

One minute Leverkusen is in first place, and you blink and 8 days later they are in third and fading with another loss.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on hard charging Schalke, and the rest of the weekend in the Bundesliga.

dN

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (25 of 34 games played)

53 Bayern Munich - Last: Sat Mar 6 D 1-1 at Koln

51 Schalke - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 1-4 at Eintracht Frankfurt

50 Bayer Leverkusen - Last: Sun Mar 7 L 3-2 at Nurnberg

- - - - -

43 Hamburg - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 1-0 v Hertha Berlin

42 Dortmund - Last: Sat Mar 6 W 3-0 v Monchengladbach

39 Werder Bremen - Last: Sat Mar 6 D 1-1 v Stuttgart

ITALY

The top 3 teams all tied, so nothing changes there at all.

dN

Riccardo Pratesi of La Gazzetta with the Heroes & Zeroes of the weekend in Serie A.

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on the triple flop at the top and the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

dN

Top Serie A Team Standings (27 of 38 games played)

59 Inter - Next: Sun Mar 7 D 0-0 v Genoa

55 Milan - Next: Sat Mar 6 D 1-1 at Roma

52 Roma - Next: Sat Mar 6 D 1-1 v Milan

46 Palermo - Next: Sun Mar 7 W 1-0 v Livorno

- - - - -

44 Juventus - Next: Sat Mar 6 W 1-2 at Fiorentina

43 Sampdoria - Next: Sun Mar 7 W 2-1 v Lazio

41 Napoli - Next: Sun Mar 7 L 2-1 at Bologna

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Round of 16, 1st Leg Matches & Scores:

-Thu Mar 11

Hamburg v Anderlecht

Rubin Kazan v Wolfsburg

Atletico Madrid v Sporting Portugal

Lille v Liverpool

Benfica v Marseille

Panathinaikos v Standard Liege

Juventus v Fulham

Valencia v Werder Bremen

COPA LIBERTADORES

GROUP STAGE (runs through to Apr 22) - This Weeks Matches & Scores:

-Tue Mar 9

Racing Club v Cerro Porteno

Bolivar v Estudiantes

Emelec v Cerro

Cuenca v Morelia

PODCASTS/VIDEOCASTS

While I was gone 2 weeks ago Graham gave you some good music videos, and I thought that today I would follow his lead. Sonic Youth 100%!

ENDERS

In very sad news, talented Brazilian forward Adriano has again been derailed from his career by alcoholism. He is currently suspended from his team Flamengo. Adriano has repeatedly denied he has a drinking problem, and I know it might be very wrong of me to write it, it is true and he needs help badly.
