MUST MUST MUST MUST SEE VIDEO

This is waaaaaay beyond priceless!

Here we have a video clip of a young & spry pre-Dallas head coach Schellas Hyndman proselytizing for something called Combat Ki Master, a form of martial arts, where you can train your mind to seemingly withstand any physical attack. And in this clip we see Schellas put his mind to rejecting all pain that one might derive from taking repeated kicks to the groin! I shit you not. A-Maze-Ing!

-A huge thanks to Grant Wahl for spreading this baby around on Twitter earlier today!

STARTERS

Wooooooo-Hooooooo Colorado Rapids v FC Dallas in the MLS Cup Final next Sunday night at BMO Field in Toronto. Will you be there? I will!

dN

Zenit St Petersburg beat Rostov 5-0 on Sunday and claimed the 2010 Russian Premier League Championship! Huge congrats to them. And Hooray Baltika to my friend Sean.

-This is Zenit's 2nd title.

dN

The USA has officially announced a friendly match for Sat Jan 22 against Chile at the Home Depot Center in suburban Los Angeles.

MLS PLAYOFFS

Colorado will wear their Burgundy kits in the final, while Dallas will wear their Blue & White.

One of these team's is going to win their first MLS Cup.

I dare someone to claim they had these two as the finalists.

Colorado got a wild freakish goal from right fullback Kosuke Kimura and then let the altitude do the rest to slow down and eventually wear out San Jose for a strong 1-0 home win.

Dallas went to the mighty LA and taught the supposed big boys a lesson. After nearly 30 minutes of Galaxy domination, but no goals, Dallas went to my call for league MVP David Ferreira who scored a great goal, then they used excellent soccer to make 2 more huge goals happen, and win 3-0 on the road. Wow.

During the season the teams tied 1-1 in Commerce City on Jul 31 and tied again 2-2 in Frisco on Oct 9.

dN

Semifinals

Matches & Scores:

-Sat Nov 13

Colorado Rapids 1-0 San Jose Earthquakes - CR goal by Kosuke Kimura

Venue: Dick's Sporting Goods Park - Commerce City CO

Attendance: 17,779

-Sun Nov 14

Los Angeles Galaxy v FC Dallas - FCD goals by David Ferreira, George John & Marvin The Martian Chavez.

Venue: The Home Depot Center - Carson CA

Attendance: 27,000

dN

Final

Match & Score:

-Sun Nov 21

Colorado Rapids v FC Dallas - 7:30pm Central on ESPN.

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

GENERAL NEWS

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated gives us five things we learned from the weekend's semifinals.

dN

Nancy Armour of the Associated Press checks out the unlikely Final pair Colorado and Dallas.

COLORADO RAPIDS

John Meyer of the Denver Post on the Raps triumph.

dN

Meyer also gives us an early preview of the championship game.

dN

Mark Kiszla of the Post actually covers the team and their important win. It's about time some of this newspaper's columnists covered the team.

dN

The Post breaks down the opponent Dallas.

FC DALLAS

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN sees goalkeeper Kevin Hartman as the difference maker for FCD.

dN

Jay Brownlee of 3rd Degree with a big match report on Dallas's winning performance.

-Peter Welpton chimes in with his initial thoughts after the win.

LOS ANGELES GALAXY

Phil Collin of the Daily News reports on the Galaxy's shattering loss.

dN

Nick Green of the Daily Breeze on his blog has post game thoughts and post game analysis.

dN

Scott French of ESPN LA with a strong post game analysis of LA.

dN

Jim Alexander of Press Enterprise tells us that the Supporters Shield was more important anyway, because that's how they do it in Europe.

SAN JOSE EARTHQUAKES

Elliott Almond of the Mercury News signs off on the Equakes for the 2010 season.

MLS/SUM BUSINESS

State of the League and 201o Best 11!

Commissioner Don Garber will give his annual State of the League address tomorrow Tue Nov 16 at 12:30pm Central. Garber will also announce "competition-related rule changes" and the 2010 MLS Best XI. The address and proceeding press conference will be streamed live at MLSsoccer.com. A transcript of the call will be available on MLSsoccer.com a couple of hours after the conclusion.

USA WORLD CUP 2022 BID

17 days until the rights to host the next 2 World Cups will be awarded.

TEAM USA

Our team is in Cape Town preparing for Wednesday's game, and the official blog from US Soccer has lots of goodies for us.

dN

Andrew Hallet of Football 365 in South Africa tears Bob Bradley a new one for leaving the A Team at home for this friendly.

dN

I for one think its great that Coach Bradley is taking this younger team to South Africa. Sure it might be a pyric baptism for some of them, but I am ready to see the roster roll forward, not stay idle like the 3 previous lifeless friendlies.

dN

Is anyone else surprised that Geoff Cameron was not on this roster?

dN

Match & Score:

Nelson Mandela Challenge Cup

-Wed Nov 17

South Africa v USA - live at 1pm Central on ESPN2.

dN

USA roster.

G:

Dominic Cervi - Celtic

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa

D:

Gale Agbossoumonde - Estoril Praia

Nat Borchers - Real Salt Lake

Jonathan Bornstein - UANL Tigres

Clarence Goodson - Brondby

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa

Tim Ream - New York Red Bulls

Jonathan Spector - West Ham United

M:

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro

Brian Carroll - Columbus Crew

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek

Eddie Gaven - Columbus Crew

Logan Pause - Chicago Fire

Robbie Rogers - Columbus Crew

F:

Juan Agudelo - New York Red Bulls

Teal Bunbury - Kansas City Wizards

Robbie Findley - Real Salt Lake

dN

SA roster.

G:

Moeneeb Josephs - Orlando Pirates

Itumeleng Khune - Kaizer Chiefs

D:

Bevan Fransman - Hapoel Tel Aviv

Siboniso Gaxa - Lierse

Morgan Gould - Supersport

Tsepo Masilela - Maccabi Haifa

Anele Ngcongca - Genk

Keegan Ritchie - Moroka Swallows

Siyabonga Sangweni - Golden Arrows

Siyanda Xulu - Mamelodi Sundowns

M:

Daylon Claasen - Lierse

Kagisho Dikgacoi - Fulham

Andile Jali - Orlando Pirates

Thanduyise Khuboni - Golden Arrows

Reneilwe Letsholonyane - Kaizer Chiefs

Teko Modise - Orlando Pirates

Matthew Pattison - Mamelodi Sundowns

Steven Pienaar - Everton

Siphiwe Tshabalala - Kaizer Chiefs

F:

Kermit Erasmus - Supersport

Sthembiso Ngcobo - Kaizer Chiefs

Bernard Parker - Twente

Davide Somma - Leeds

STORY OF THE DAY

Mexico is set to take a page out of US Soccer's book. And the haters can suck on this.

Not only has Mexico decided to put all their focus on next summer's Gold Cup by not sending their A-Squad to the Copa America, they won't even send their head coach. All hands will be on deck for the CONCACAF Championship and a trip to the next Confederations Cup for the winner.

You see, they know how much the USA got out of the Confed Cup in 2007, and they want a piece of that pie. Mexico will instead send their U23 team to Copa America.

And all the so called genius's trashed coach Bob Bradley for doing that exact same thing 3+ years ago. Believe me, it paid off. And US Soccer would do the same thing again if the sitch arose.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"There’s no excuses. We were out-played, beat on most matchups on the field, and we were out-coached."

-Los Angeles head coach Bruce Arena on his team getting routed by FC Dallas at home in the MLS Cup semifinal.

BIG EUROPEAN CLUB MATCHES COMING UP THIS WEEKEND

Matches & Scores

-Sat Nov 13

Juventus 1-1 Roma - 1 points apiece for two big name teams hoping to return to glory, and both are just out of the top 3 Champions League spots.

Barcelona Villarreal - #2 v #3, as the top 3 are pulling away from the rest, and Villa wants very much to stay up top.

-Sun Nov 14

Inter Milan 0-1 AC Milan - The Milan derby sees Ibrahimovic get revenge on his old team with a PK goal, then Milan hung on with 10 men. Inter under Benitez are already proving to be a joke.

QUESTION OF THE DAY

Hey ESPN! Where is your coverage of the OTHER MLS semifinal? We see the articles on LA v Dallas. But what about Colorado v San Jose? Not worth your time? You are only broadcasting the Final. Why do I have to keep calling these people out. At least this time I did it with a less personal approach (which was ill advised.)

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

CD CHIVAS USA

Who is going to be the next head coach of Chivas USA? I hear it might be the one and only Eric Wynalda! Whadda ya think of that? How about Robin Fraser??

COLUMBUS CREW

DC UNITED

The Washington Post fills us in the search for a new DCU head coach.

dN

DCU released forward Danny Allsopp today, after one mediocre season.

SOCCER IN MINNESOTA

How did our 2 Minnesota teams fare in their first ever US Soccer Development Academy League games this past weekend?

Scores:

U15/16

-Sat Nov 13

Chicago Magic 0-2 Minnesota Thunder Academy - MTA goals by Mahdi Muse & Ismaila Jome.

Chicago Fire 1-0 Shattuck-St Mary's

-Sun Nov 14

Chicago Magic 1-2 Shattuck-St Mary's

Chicago Fire 3-1 Minnesota Thunder Academy - MTA goal by (unknown).

U17/18

-Sat Nov 13

Chicago Fire 2-1 Shattuck-St Mary's

Chicago Magic 0-3 Minnesota Thunder Academy - MTA goals by Gerald Ben, Eric Miller & Thomas Obarski.

-Sun Nov 14

Chicago Magic 2-2 Shattuck-St Mary's

Chicago Fire 1-1 Minnesota Thunder Academy - MTA goal by Nick Forsgren.

dN

And Coming Up next weekend, the 2 Minnesota team's play their first ever home games at Macalester College (MTA) and Shattuck St Mary's Sports Complex:

U15/16

-Sat Nov 20

Minnesota Thunder Academy v FC Milwaukee - 2pm

Shattuck-St Mary's v Sockers FC - 2:30pm

-Sun Nov 21

Shattuck-St Mary's v FC Milwaukee - 11:30am

Minnesota Thunder Academy v Sockers FC - 2pm

U17/18

-Sat Nov 20

Minnesota Thunder Academy v FC Milwaukee - 12 noon

Shattuck-St Mary's v Sockers FC - 12 noon

-Sun Nov 21

Shattuck-St Mary's v FC Milwaukee - 9am

Minnesota Thunder Academy v Sockers FC - 12 noon

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Doctors told Maurice Edu that his knee injury is not serious, and he will miss about 2 weeks. Its been over 1 already since he got injured.

dN

The Washington Post reports that criminal files have been charged against the driver of the car in the Charlie Davies accident that happened a year ago mid October.

dN

Stuart Holden got the game winning goal for Bolton. His first in the Premier League.

dN

Michael Bradley scored for Gladbach as they went from the worst team in the league to the second to the last worst team in the league. (The beat the new bottom dwellers.)

dN

Steve Cherundolo was ejected after 2 yellow cards.

dN

Frank Simek & Mike Grella are playing every game now for Carlisle and the team has climbed to 4th place in the England's third division.

dN

Jonathan Spector was at least on the bench this week for West Ham.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

BELGIUM - Pro League

Sacha Kljestan - Anderlecht - came on as a sub in the dying minutes of stoppage time, found a way to grab a yellow card, but they won 1-2 at #1 Genk. Anderlecht are #2 but just 2 points now at the mid-point of the season.

DENMARK - Superliga

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - back in the first 11 and going all the way as they won 2-1 at home over Lyngby.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - played the entirety of a scoreless road tie at Newcastle.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - went the distance but gave up a 2-0 lead to draw 2-2 at home to Manchester United.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - played the entire game but lost at home 2-3 to Bolton.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - played the whole game and scored what proved to be the game winner 2-3 at Wolverhampton.

Tim Howard - Everton - in goal as usual but they lost 1-2 at home to Arsenal.

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - a 90th minute sub in a scoreless road draw at Newcastle.

Eric Lichaj - Aston Villa - came on as a sub in the 88th minute to help salvage a tie 2-2 at home against Manchester United.

ENGLAND - Championship League

Conor Doyle - Derby County - came on in the 85th minute but they lost 2-0 at Leicester.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Carlisle United - played the whole 90 as they won 3-2 at home over Southampton.

Frank Simek - Carlisle United - also played the whole 90 as they won 3-2 at home over Southampton.

FRANCE - Ligue 1

Carlos Bocanegra - Saint Etienne - game at Valenciennes canceled due to poor weather.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - went the distance and scored the second goal as they won 0-4 at Koln. They moved from 18th to 17th over Koln.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - started but got 2 yellow cards and was ejected in the 68th minute, but they hung on to win 0-1 at Mainz.

Jermaine Jones - Schalke - started and went 64 minutes as they drew 2-2 at Wolfsburg.

GERMANY - 2 Bundesliga

Luis Robles - Karlsruher - in goal yet again as they drew 1-1 at Erzgebirge Aue.

David Yelldell - Duisburg - went the distance as they drew 2-2 at Alemannia Aachen.

NETHERLANDS - Eerste Divisie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - played the whole game but lost 1-2 at home again RKC Waalwijk.

NORWAY - Eliteserien - the season is now over

Erik Benjaminsen - Stabaek - finished in 12th place.

Steve Clark - Honefoss - finished in 14th place, and had to playoff to remain in the top division, did not play but they won 2-1.

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - finished in 12th place.

Hunter Freeman - Start - finished in 8th place.

Clarence Goodson - Start - finished in 8th place.

Di Vita Jensen - Honefoss - finished in 14th place, and had to playoff to remain in the top division, started and played 81 minute as they won 2-1 at home.

RUSSIA - Premier Division

Yevgeni Starikov - FC Tom Tomsk - started, got a yellow card and went 81 mintues as they drew 1-1 at home against Alaniya Vladikavkaz.

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

Edgar Castillo & San Luis, and Herculez Gomez, Jose Torres, Marco Vidal & Pachuca all made the post season playoffs that begin on Wednesday.

dN

Games Action: (only those that played are listed)

PRIMERA DIVISION

Edgar Castillo - San Luis - did not play, but San Luis did make the playoffs.

Herculez Gomez - Pachuca - did not play, but Tuzos did make the playoffs.

Sonny Guadarrama - Atlante - started and played 73 minutes as they drew 1-1 at Toluca. Atlante did not make the playoffs.

Sammy Ochoa - Estudiantes Tecos - came on as a sub in the 85th minute but they lost 1-0 at Santos Laguna. Tecos did not make the playoffs.

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - went the distance as they won 2-3 at Monterrey. Chivas did not make the playoffs.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - went the full 90 as they won 1-2 at Necaxa. Tuzos did make the playoffs.

Marco Vidal - Pachuca - came on as a sub in the 55th minute as they won 1-2 at Necaxa. Tuzos did make the playoffs.

MEXICO

This weekend brought us the last round of the Apertura before the Playoffs.

And big names and recent champs like Guadalajara, Tigres, Toluca & Necaxa are OUT!

While a couple of minnows like Chiapas & San Luis are IN!

The playoffs start on Wednesday.

dN

Final Regular Season Standings:

IN-39 Cruz Azul

IN-32 Monterrey

IN-30 Santos Laguna

IN-27 America

IN-26 San Luis

IN-25 Jaguares - Sat Nov 13 D 1-1 at Queretaro

IN-25 Pachuca - Fri Nov 12 W 1-2 at Necaxa

IN-25 Pumas - Sun Nov 14 W 0-1 at America

--------------

OUT-24 Tigres - Sat Nov 13 D 2-2 at Atlas

OUT-22 Toluca - Sun Nov 14 D 1-1 v Atlante

OUT-22 Guadalajara - Sun Nov 14 W 2-3 v Monterrey

OUT-21 Morelia - Sun Nov 14 D 3-3 v Puebla

OUT-19 Queretaro

OUT-19 Puebla

OUT-16 Necaxa

OUT-16 Atlante

OUT-15 Tecos

OUT-13 Atlas

dN

Laguilla (Playoffs)

Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Wed Nov 17

UNAM Pumas v Cruz Azul Cementeros

Chiapas Jaguares v Santos Laguna

-Thu Nov 18

Pachuca Tuzos v Monterrey Rayados

San Luis Gladiadores v America Aguilas

2nd Leg

-Sat Nov 20

Cruz Azul Cementeros v UNAM Pumas

Santos Laguna v Chiapas Jaguares

-Sun Nov 21

Monterrey Rayados v Pachuca Tuzos

America Aguilas v San Luis Gladiadores

THE CARIBBEAN

Caribbean Cup 2010 - Here are the last 2 dates of the Group Stage.

dN

The last of the Group Stage Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 12

Suriname 3-3 Cuba

Antigua 0-0 Barbuda v Dominica

-Sun Nov 14

Dominica 0-5 Suriname

Antigua 0-0 Barbuda v Cuba

dN

There is another group stage and then the knock-out rounds through to the Final that will all be played in Fort-de-France, Martinique from Nov 26 - Dec 5.

Group H

Cuba

Grenada

Martinique

Trinidad & Tobago

Group I

Antigua & Barbuda

Guadaloupe

Guyana

Jamaica

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Fri Nov 26

Trinidad & Tobago v Cuba

Martinique v Grenada

-Sat Nov 27

Guyana v Guadaloupe

Jamaica v Antigua & Barbuda

-Sun Nov 28

Grenada v Trinidad & Tobago

Martinique v Cuba

-Mon Nov 29

Antigua & Barbuda v Guyana

Guadaloupe v Jamaica

-Tue Nov 30

Cuba v Grenada

Martinique v Trinidad & Tobago

-Wed Dec 1

Guadaloupe v Antigua & Barbuda

Guyana v Jamaica

dN

Semifinal

-Fri Dec 3

Winner H v Runner Up I

Winner I v Runner Up H

3rd Place

-Sun Dec 5

Semifinal Losers

Final

-Sun Dec 5

Semifinal Winners

ENGLAND

du Nord recap: Despite losing badly at home Chelsea are still in first place, but with a win at Everton Arsenal move up to 2nd within two points of the lead. Man U & Man City both dropped another 2 points and are in 3rd and 4th respectively. #5 Bolton is only 6 points ahead of #18 Birmingham. Wolves & West Ham are already looking doomed.

dN

Sachin Nakrani of the Guardian with five things we learned from the Premier League this weekend.

SPAIN

du Nord recap: Real Madrid won on the road and Barca won at home over #3 Villarreal so the top 2 just pulled away from the pack. And while a few other teams are decent (Valencia, Sevilla, Espanyol & Atletico Madrid), the rest are all closer to being egg sucking dogs than good teams.

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian tells us even though Real Madrid won the match, Sporting Gijon manager Manolo Preciado got the last word in on Jose Mourinho, and the rest of the round in the Primera.

dN

Phil Ball of Soccernet on simply third best Villarreal, and a review of the rest of la Liga.

FRANCE

du Nord recap: the amazing Brest stays in first place with a tie, while 3 teams jump over Rennes who lost again and fall to 5th place - Lille goes to #2, Montpellier at #3 and Paris St Germain up to #4. Thought to be contenders Marseille tied, as both Lyon and Bordeaux won.

GERMANY

du Nord recap: Dortmund's train kept a rollin' all night long with another win, and now a 7 point lead over new #2 Leverkusen who won as well. Mainz dropped further back with another loss, and Bayern gained a few more places up to 6th with an easy win.

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on the big surprise from Bayer Leverkusen (2nd place), and the rest of the round in the Bundesliga.

ITALY

du Nord recap: A great weekend in Serie A with the top six teams facing each other. Milan beat Inter to stay at #1, while #2 Lazio beat #3 Napoli! #4 Juve tied #6 Roma, and Inter fell to #5 and now have a record of 5 wins, 5 draws and 2 losses in the league. (They had 10 draws and 4 losses in all of last year. Putting them on course this season for 16 draws and at least 6 losses. Brutal.)

dN

Paolo Bandini of the Guardian on Milan & Zlatan, lame-ass Inter, and the latest round from Serie A.

UEFA EURO 2012

Only 2 qualifiers this week. Everyone is playing friendlies, see below, until next spring when we get the next full docket of games.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Nov 17

Croatia v Malta

Finland v San Marino

dN

Group Standings

dN

Qualifying then takes a big break until Mar 25.

COPA AMERICA

The 2011 Copa America will kick off on Jul 1.

The 10 CONMEBOL teams will be joined by guests Mexico and Japan.

The 3 groups were drawn yesterday. Here they are:

A

Argentina

Bolivia

Colombia

Japan

B

Brazil

Ecuador

Paraguay

Venezuela

C

Chile

Mexico

Peru

Uruguay

ARGENTINA

FIFA.com does a Q & A with Lionel Messi about the national team.

AFRICA CUP OF NATIONS

2 important qualifiers on the books this week.

Matches & Scores:

-Wed Nov 17

Botswana v Tunisia

Togo v Chad

dN

Group Standings

INTERNATIONAL FRIENDLIES

There are boatloads of games going down this week, with only pride at stake.

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Nov 16

Scotland v Faroe Islands

Saudi Arabia v Uganda

Indonesia v Philippines

Jordan v Cyprus

-Wed Nov 17

Sweden v Germany

England v France

Portugal v Spain

Argentina v Brazil

Netherlands v Turkey

South Africa v USA

Romania v Italy

Switzerland v Ukraine

Ireland v Norway

Austria v Greece

Poland v Cote d'Ivoire

Hong Kong v Paraguay

Denmark v Czech Republic

Luxembourg v Algeria

Iraq v Kuwait

Ecuador v Venezuela

Panama v Honduras

N Ireland v Morocco

Russia v Belgium

Montenegro v Azerbaijan

Chile v Uruguay

Albania v Macedonia

Slovenia v Georgia

China v Latvia

Bulgaria v Serbia

Senegal v Gabon

Egypt v Australia

Iran v Nigeria

Hungary v Lithuania

Israel v Iceland

Slovakia v Bosnia-Herzegovina

Oman v Belarus

Jamaica v Costa Rica

Mozambique v Zimbabwe

Colombia v Peru

Guinea v Burkina Faso

Cape Verde Islands v Guinea-Bissau

Guyana v Guatemala

Malawi v Rwanda

Libya v Niger

Saudi Arabia v Ghana

Botswana v Tunisia

Qatar v Haiti

Mali v Congo DR

Estonia v Liechtenstein

-Thu Nov 18

UAE v India

ENDERS

Did you see Manny Pacquiao make mincemeat out of that creep Antonio Margarito on Saturday night in boxing?? It brought joy to my cold heart. And that is not easy. What was easy was the Pac-man's destruction of the cheater who could not load his gloves with plaster this time around. And what got my blood boiling even more was seeing that ugly video clip last week of Margarito and his boys mocking Pacquiao's trainer Freddy Roach over his Parkinsons Disease. Those cheap pea-brains made fun of Roach by stuttering and shaking, then laughing their sorry asses off in front of TV cameras. You think Manny gave Margo some extra bashing because of that. You can bet on it. If you have never seen 8 weight class champion Manny Pacquiao fight, do yourself a favor and You Tube him. Its a thing of beauty.
