It's Day 91 of 2016.

The USA Women's National Team players association has filed a grievance against US Soccer with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission declaring unequal pay for the Women compared to the Men's National Team. The Women's team contends that they are paid far less then the Men's team, but outperform them consistently. By Andrew Das of the New York Times.

The Women's team is not wrong in saying they deserve to get paid a whole lot more for what they have delivered. They are simply the best in their sport.

However, they have never "out performed" the Men's team because they have never played against them or in any of the same competitions. All of us and the Women's team know how that would go.

The best tool to show the USWNT deserves to get paid more is the revenue that their program generates. That is 100% legit. Its about 15% lower than the USMNT. But the current difference in pay is not 15%. Its much larger then that. Much larger.

By ramping up this fight the Women are building for the future of all women. This issue is a million times bigger than just soccer in America. But every brick in the wall helps the whole concept of equality become stronger. Women deserve better. A whole lot better.

dN

Good perspective on the USMNT game from Tuesday night. By George Vecsey on his blog. I miss his writing in the New York Times a lot. (And he means Copa America, not Gold Cup.)

dN

The contributions made by Kyle Beckerman to the USMNT are formidable. By Brian Sciaretta of American Soccer Now.

dN

The daily internet and satellite radio talk show Soccer Morning has lost host Jason Davis. He will be running a brand new show on SIRIUS satellite. (No other details known at this time.)

Soccer Morning will continue with a new host, yet to be named.

I nominate Jonathan Tannenwald.

dN

Lighter: du Nord Music Mix Vol 77 (download and extract)

dN

Family. Today's feature story on Minnesota United's Christian Ramirez. By Andy Greder of the St Paul Pioneer Press. (Part of a weeklong series.)

Wednesday 2: Ben Speas.

Wednesday 1: Kevin Venegas.

Tuesday: Justin Davis

Monday: Sammy Ndjock

dN

The San Francisco Deltas were officially introduced as a new NASL team today.

They will begin play in 2017 (don't know if its Spring or Fall.)

Home games will be held at Kezar Stadium.

dN

NASL has now signed broadcast deals with 4 national providers, not to mention local deals that individual teams have set up. So is this a great thing, or a cluster fuck? [PARODY] [KINDA] By Jon Marthaler of Northern Pitch.

dN

Individual NASL team season previews from SBISoccer:

New York Cosmos

Edmonton

Jacksonville Armada

Carolina RailHawks

Tampa Bay Rowdies

Ottawa Fury

Indy Eleven

Fort Lauderdale Strikers

Rayo OKC

dN

Joao Plata of Real Salt Lake was named MLS Player Of The Month for April.

The Bird Is The Word
