MLS MATCHES AND SCORES

WEEK 15

-Sat Jun 16

Philadelphia Union v DC United - 6pm CT on Galavision

Venue: PPL Park

Vancouver Whitecaps FC v Colorado Rapids - 6pm CT

Venue: BC Place

Houston Dynamo v FC Dallas - 6:30pm CT on ESPN2

Venue: BBVA Compass Stadium

Montreal Impact v Seattle Sounders FC - 6:30pm CT

Venue: Stade Saputo

New England Revolution v Columbus Crew - 6:30pm CT

Venue: Gillette Stadium

Sporting Kansas City v Toronto FC - 7:30pm CT

Venue: Livestrong Sporting Park

CD Chivas USA v Real Salt Lake - 9:30pm CT

Venue: The Home Depot Center

-Sun Jun 17

Chicago Fire SC v New York Red Bulls - 4pm CT on NBCSN

Venue: Toyota Park

LA Galaxy v Portland Timbers - 6pm CT

Venue: The Home Depot Center

MLS NEWS

What exactly went down in Philadelphia this week? Will we ever really have a clear picture as to why they fired head coach Peter Nowak? No, probably not. But here is a full run down:

Philadelphia Union CEO Nick Sakiewicz: "I'm not a wine connoisseur, but I know what good wine tastes like. When I sipped the wine recently, it didn't taste so good."

Local newspaper reports:

-Christopher Vito of the Delaware County Daily Times. (Includes video of press conference)

-Marc Narducci of the Philadelphia Inquirer.

-Kerith Gabriel of the Philadelphia Daily News.

-John Smallwood of the Philadelphia Daily News.

-Jack McCaffery of the Delaware County Daily Times.

-Video of press conference from the team. (But sadly the Q + A session is not included.)

John Hackworth was named the interim head coach.

Reports came from Scotland that Nowak has applied for the head coaches job at Hearts.

The actual reason behind the firing was not given, but we can quickly surmise that the fans had turned on the head coach for the last time and club management knew it was now or never to keep them on board.

The losing was bad enough, and shipping away of favorite players did not appear to be slowing down.

dN

In other news...

TFC will play their first game under new head coach Paul Mariner.

San Jose will be without goalkeeper Jon Busch who is serving a 1 game retroactive suspension for supposedly ripping a ball out of the hands of a sideline ball crew youth. There is no official video of the incident for us to look at.

Thierry Henry and Rafa Marquez will both miss the New York game due to injury.

Sporting Kansas City will host French champions Montpellier in a friendly on Jul 24! Pretty cool.

NASL SCOREBOARD

Matches and Scores:

-Sat Jun 16

Atlanta Silverbacks v Carolina RailHawks

Fort Lauderdale Strikers v FC Edmonton

Puerto Rico Islanders v San Antonio Scorpions

Minnesota Stars v Tampa Bay Rowdies

Watch online

Standings

20 Puerto Rico (+12)

19 San Antonio (+5)

17 Minnesota (+2)

13 Fort Lauderdale (-3)

12 Tampa Bay (-4)

11 Edmonton (0)

11 Carolina (-2)

8 Atlanta (-10)

EURO 2012

Round 3 of the Group Stage with all to play for! With only Ireland and Sweden eliminated so far.

All games to be played at 1:45pm CT

-Sat Jun 16

Greece v Russia

Czech Republic v Poland

-Sun Jun 17

Portugal v Netherlands

Denmark v Germany

-Mon Jun 18

Croatia v Spain

Italy v Ireland

-Tue Jun 19

Sweden v France

England v Ukraine
