It's Day 127 of 2016.

Yup! I am opening with this:

Here lies the best/worst Reddit AMA (Ask Me Anything) of all time!

Steven Seagal answering questions. HINT: He answers very few, and with simple cliches, then bolts, but you skimming the thousands of questions for even 5 minutes will make your day - some amazingly outrageous things in there. Thanks to Shaun for the link.

dN

COME ON MIRACLE!

Bob Bradley - stuck in 4th place in the race for 3rd and promotion to Ligue 1:

-Fri May 6

Auxerre 1-3 Le Havre

Had to win today. Got the win today.

But..... So did Metz.

So HAC stays 3 points behind Metz with just 1 game left to play.

Bigger hurdle is the goal differential tie breaker where Metz holds the edge +16 to +10 for HAC.

So not only do Bob's boys have to win in their last game and Metz has to lose, they will need to make up 7 goals!

Le Havre will need a miracle.

LAST GAMES:

-Fri May 13

Le Havre v Bourg en Bresse

Lens v Metz

dN

NASL Week 6 Matches:

-Wed May 4

Jacksonville 0-1 Edmonton

-Sat May 7

Ottawa v Minnesota - 1pm CT on MY29 + ESPN3.

Jacksonville v OKC

Carolina v Ft Lauderdale

Indy v Edmonton

Miami v Cosmos

dN

A check-in on the USMNT players and their current form. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

MLS Week 10 (9 games)

-Fri May 6

Orlando v Red Bulls

-Sat May 7

Vancouver v Portland - a desperate Cascadia game

Toronto v Dallas - re-opening the new stadium

Columbus v Montreal

Houston v KC

Colorado v Salt Lake - can you believe this rivalry game actually means something?!?!

Seattle v San Jose

-Sun May 8

LA v New England

DC v New York City

dN

Oh the clusterfuck in Miami rolls along at top (or is that bottom) speed. Beckham's group and the city are hung up on some fairly big items in their contract talks to acquire the land for the stadium. By Douglas Hanks of the Miami Herald.

dN

PDL + NPSL seasons start this weekend.

dN

2 rounds left in La Liga and the race is tight tight tight! All play on Sunday this weekend:

85 Barca (+75) v Espanyol

85 Atleti (+44) v Levante

84 Real (+73) v Valencia

The Bird Is The Word
