We made a list before the season started of 30 MLS players who we felt had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

30 breakout players For 2013: Week 5 Review

Juan Agudelo - had a great set up for teammate Avila who had his shot saved, then got hurt and had to come off in the 34th minute. Looks to be his hamstring.

Alex - bye week.

Eric Avila - played very good the whole game, scoring the winning goal on a beautiful 1st time volley (GOTW nominee), and came close to another one.

Steve Beitashour - out injured.

Jerry Bengston - started and went the whole 90.

Claudio Bieler - played the whole game and had his chances, converting nicely for the games first goal. Probably should have done a little better, but still pretty good.

Alex Caskey - on the bench.

Michael Farfan - went the full 90, and had a solid game.

Gabriel Farfan - was not in uniform for this game.

Diego Fagundez - played 85 minutes on the field, but you have to wonder if he isn't still too young to be a starter week in and week out.

Perry Kitchen - bye week.

Mikey Lopez - not on the bench this week.

Darren Mattocks - played another full 90 and was again disappointing. Having 6 shots but none on goal. Also appears to have a sprout coming out of the top of his head.

Kenny Miller - came on as a sub in the 57th min and did a great job following up a on rebounded shot to jab home a diving header goal. (His 2nd of the season.) Looked really good out there.

Mario Martinez - did not suit up after again returning fairly late from the international break.

Jack McInerney - started and went 80 minutes but could not get the job done, getting off two shots that were not on target.

Kekuta Mennah - came on for the final 10 minutesw of the game in the midfield. I think his speed would make him a better option up top late in the game.

Justin Meram - bye week.

Amobi Okugo - played the whole game and was decent, but not great. Beaten for the game winning goal by Henry.

Martin Rivero - out injured.

Oriol Uri Rosell - came off just as the game went to 2nd half stoppage time, did a decent job holding down the fort.

Kelyn Rowe - did pretty good covering a lot of ground in a 30 minute substitue performance, but was given a yellow card.

Chris Schuler - went the distance at centerback again, and pairing up with Nat Borchers can only help.

Luis Silva - made his season debut as he came on for the last 18 minutes of the game and made a difference, setting up what ended up being the tying goal.

AJ Soares - played the whole game, but needs to do better on his clearances - game up 3 corner kicks, which is not good enough for a starting centerback.

Bakary Soumare - on the outs with the team, and has asked to be traded.

*Zarek Valentin

Diego Valeri - played the whole game as they got another tie, this time on the road.

Jose Villareal - subbed in with 20 minutes to go and scored the game tying goal, which should be the Goal of the Week, and potential Goal of the Year candidate. Outstanding.

Sal Zizzo - not on the bench.

*Loaned to Norwegian team Bodo/Glimt for the 2013 season.
