It's Day 85 of 2016.

It was on this day 1 year ago that MLS awarded a franchise to Minnesota United. So what has happened in that 1 year. The HUGE step is that the club is inching inching inching closer to breaking ground on a stadium, not in Minneapolis, but in St Paul where they have been greeted with open arms. Other then that? Not very much. We still don't know when they will enter the league. If they will have to find a temporary home field. Or if the name of the team is being changed. We hear rumors about all those items, but not 1 single official word on any of them.

The new season starts in just 8 days!

Twin C‪ities ABC affiliate KSTP Ch. 5 gives us a good strong 11+ minutes of interviews [VIDEO] with Minnesota United head coach Carl Craig and players Christian Ramirez and Jamie Watson.

dN

2 big road games for the USA men this week:

-Fri Mar 25

USMNT at Guatemala - World Cup qualifying - 9pm CT on beIN

USM-U23 at Colombia - Olympic qualifying - 4pm CT on FS1

Having already lost at home to Trinidad and Tobago in this qualifying round the Guatemalans don't intend to lose to the USA at home as well. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

This will be the first non-friendly match for Guatemala under new coach Walter Claveri.

According to Guatemalan press both Carlos Ruiz (a rent dispute according to Jeff Carlisle) and Hamilton Lopez (couldn't get a visa) will not travel to the USA for the 2nd match.

Goalkeepers Tim Howard and Brad Guzan will rotate starting the two games. Not sure who starts which game though.

Werder Bremen says Aron Johannsson will not return to the field this season. He has been out since October with an ankle injury.

dN

Looks like there are A LOT of tickets left for USA v Guatemala next week in Columbus. Thats a little disappointing. I was hoping for a full house again.

dN

Aaaaaaaaaaaaah Bill Walton. The weirdest and biggest and darkest personality in sports broadcasting. And by that I mean, "Duuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuude. Cool. Wow. Bummer. Man. Profound." By Sam Anderson of the New York Times.

dN

Johann Cruyff was one of the main architects of modern day play at Barcelona. By Sid Lowe of the Guardian.

dN

The great story of a Jewish-American businessman, who did not like soccer, but bought and revived one of Costa Rica's biggest clubs Herediano. By Bryan Kay of the Guardian.

The Bird Is The Word
