It's Day 302 of 2016.

Saturday night will be the final Minnesota United game at NSC Stadium.

Here is a little video about this last game, narrated by a familiar voice.

dN

Last game at NSC Stadium:

-Sat Oct 29

Minnesota United v New York Cosmos at 7pm

Buy Tickets in Section 25

dN

Spending the past couple of seasons at games with my brother @geargab was not something I saw coming. It's been awesome. #NSCMemories pic.twitter.com/BZZiGhMyk6

— Bruce McGuire (@dunord) October 28, 2016

dN

My Minnesota United Notes:

For Minnesota to claim the 4th and final NASL playoff spot they MUST win on Saturday, and then OKC MUST lose on Sunday.

United has had a very mediocre Fall season with 6 Wins, 7 Ties and 8 Losses, putting them in 7th place.

The Spring season was better with 5 Wins, 1 Tie and 4 Losses, good enough for 4th place.

Overall the team has lost 4 home games which is a huge disappointment.

But the real failure came on the road where they won just 1 time and that was way back on Apr 10 in the 2nd game of the season. Since then in 14 road games they have 7 points.

The last opponent of the regular season is the Cosmos who have never allowed more than 1 goal in a game against Minnesota. Cosmos have allowed 6 goals in the past 10 games.

On the memories and the end of an era at NSC Stadium:

-David La Vaque of the Star Tribune

-Andy Greder of the Pioneer Press

-Wes Burdine of Fifty Five One.

-A collection of Tweets to mark some of the highlights at NSC. By Burdine.

dN

NASL Week 28 Schedule:

-Fri Oct 28

Miami v Edmonton

-Sat Oct 29

Ottawa v Ft Lauderdale

Puerto Rico v Carolina

Minnesota v New York - 7pm CT on My29, ESPN3.com and One World Sports

-Sun Oct 30

Jacksonville v Tampa Bay

OKC v Indy - 6pm CT on ESPN3.com and Cox703

NASL Playoff race: (top 4 advance)

#1 62 New York

#2 55 Indy

#3 53 Edmonton

#4 44 OKC (+5 GD)

-----

41 Minnesota (+5 GD)

dN

The very personal story of an immigrant kid in Washington who has a chance to be a star player despite the constant struggle. By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times.

dN

MLS Playoffs - Knockout Round results:

Of the 4 higher seeded teams only DC failed to advance, and boy oh boy did they fail. Oof. Montreal totally dominated. DC got their goals in the 90th min and in 2nd half stoppage time., Those don't count for much when you are already down by 4.

Controversy surrounded the other game. Neither team seemed to have the attacking quality to win the game. Both were stern in defense, but Seattle needed great goalkeeping by Stefan Frei to stay in it. The difference was that both teams scored a goal by a player in an off side position, but Seattle's goal was allowed to stand.

I would assume that when video replay comes into effect that game winning goal by Nelson Valdez would be wiped out.

Matteo Mancosu had the best performance of anyone in the first game. He scored 2 and set up a 3rd for Montreal.

Stefan Frei was MOTM for the 2nd game. Unreal save after save.

Both Benny Feilhaber for KC and Nicolas Lodeiro for Sea gave it everything they had last night and made the other teams defenses struggle to contain them.

-Thu Oct 27

DC United 2-4 Montreal Impact

Game highlights [VIDEO]

Seattle Sounders 1-0 Sporting Kansas City

Game highlights [VIDEO]

Quarterfinals Schedule:

1st Leg

-Sun Oct 30

Montreal Impact v New York Red Bulls - 2:00pm CT on ESPN

LA Galaxy v Colorado Rapids - 4:00pm CT on ESPN

Toronto v New York City - 6:00pm CT on FS1

Seattle Sounders v Dallas - 8:30pm CT on FS1

2nd Leg games on Sun Nov 6

dN

A 4th member of the du Nord Futbol MLS Coaches Hot Seat has been retained by their team for next season: Jay Heaps will be given another year in New England.

Revs team management said a surge in the last quarter of the season is what sees Heaps get another shot. By Frank Dell'apa of the Boston Globe.

Carl Robinson, Jim Curtain and Greg Vanney are secure for next season too.

dN

What are the biggest issues facing DC United this offseason? By Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

dN

Who do I think is the favorite to win MLS Cup? I don't know. I picked Red Bulls. But never ever count out LA Galaxy.

dN

Who is gonna win MLS Cup? The Sports Illustrated staff talks it out. Via Sports Illustrated.

dN

The Bob Bradley + Swansea City Tracker:

Standings - 19th Place, 2 Points into Relegation

Up Next - Mon Oct 31 at Stoke City

dN

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Standings - 1st Place, 3 Point Lead

Up Next - Sun Oct 30 at Toluca

dN

After missing almost all of last season at Werder Bremen American forward Aron Johnannsson is still struggling to get 2016/17 on track. But it seems to be picking up steam. By Stephan Uersfeld of ESPNFC.

dN

BTW Bobby Wood has scored 4 goals for Hamburger in all competitions this season. The rest of the team has scored 1.

dN

The Guatemalan Football Federation has been suspended from FIFA for refusing to accept new FIFA imposed rules on their federation after decades of corruption. By Sofia Menchu of Reuters.

dN

Real Sociedad in Spain had discovered that a homeless man had been living outside their stadium - so they gave him a job! From Marca.

The Bird Is The Word
