It's Day 222 of 2016.

Why is Minnesota insisting on FC in the name of the team when everything about the sport in America is Soccer! They currently play in the North American Soccer League. They are moving to Major League Soccer. The federation is US Soccer. There is no Football to be found anywhere in our countries structure. It's Soccer. It's SC.

dN

US Open Cup Semifinals:

-Tue Aug 9

New England Revolution v Chicago Fire - 7pm CT on ESPN2

-Wed Aug 10

LA Galaxy v Dallas - 9pm CT on ESPN2

dN

USWNT Olympic Tournament

Group Stage Match Schedule:

-Wed Aug 3

USA 2-0 New Zealand - in Belo Horizonte - USA goals by Carli Lloyd + Alex Morgan.

-Sat Aug 6

USA 1-0 France - in Belo Horizonte - USA goal by Carli Lloyd.

-Tue Aug 9

USA v Colombia - in Manaus - 5pm CT on NBCSN

Group G Standings:

6 USA (+3 GD) - Has advanced to knock out stage.

3 France (+3 GD)

3 New Zealand (-1 GD)

0 Colombia (-5 GD)

dN

du Nord Futbol MLS Team Hot List:

Strictly ranked on performance over last 5 games

Previous records and expectations are not considered

(Direction trending in last 10 games)

01 Toronto (same)

02 LA Galaxy (up)

03 Dallas (same)

04 New York Red Bulls (up)

05 Montreal Impact (same)

06 Real Salt Lake (up)

07 Colorado Rapids (down)

08 Seattle Sounders (up)

09 New York City (down)

10 Portland Timbers (down)

11 New England Revolution (same)

12 Sporting Kansas City (down)

13 San Jose Earthquakes (up)

14 Orlando City (same)

15 Philapdelphia Union (same)

16 Vancouver Whitecaps (same)

17 Chicago Fire (up)

18 DC United (down)

19 Columbus Crew (same)

20 Houston Dynamo (down)

dN

Alejandro Bedoya doesn't care what you or your buddy Hugh or Stu think about his transfer to Philadelphia Union. He is excited. Via ESPNFC.

dN

A week after Red Bull New York lost captain and defensive midfielder Dax McCarty to a broken tibia, they have now lost centerback Damien Perrinelle for 6 weeks due to a jacked up ankle, and fullback Conor Lade for the rest of the season due a blown out knee.

dN

FC Dallas sold their best player Fabian Castillo in the transfer window and fans of the team will pay the biggest price. By Nathan Nipper of the Dallas Morning News.

The author of the article won't say it, so I will: the owners are notorious cheap skates and this is a prime example. They knew the player wanted to go and didn't bother to have a back up plan to sign someone immediately in case a deal went down.

dN

Nashville jumps into the race for a MLS team. By Joey Garrison of the Tennessean.

dN

Chris Cortez of Arizona United named USL Player Of The Week

Eamon Zayed of Indy Eleven named NASL Player Of The Week

Sebastian Giovinco of Toronto named MLS Player Of The Week

dN

Julian Green has been made a part of Bayern Munich's 25 player senior squad to start the Bundesliga season. He is going to have to fight very hard to see the field. Congrats to him. This is where we see what the kid is really made of.

The Green story so far. By Alexander Abnos of Sports Illustrated.

The Bundesliga season begins on Fri Aug 26

dN

Its time again to see who is hot and who is not for USMNT players. By Doug McIntyre of ESPN.

dN

English Premier League team-by-team season previews. From the Guardian:

Southampton

(see previous day's blog entries for other team previews)

The Bird Is The Word
