It's Day 199 of 2017.

My latest column for 1500ESPN: Mid-season roster changes are happening for Minnesota United, and I answer your soccer questions.

dN

A Twitter feed remembering the summer of 1967 in Detroit when riots broke out. This feed from the Detroit Free Press daily newspaper will show day-by-day how they covered the events.

dN

Another FIFA creep ends up in handcuffs, this one for financial skull-duggery. And he's the Spanish federation president and FIFA VP. By Raphael Minder for the New York Times.

dN

USMNT

USA preps for the Salvadorans in Philadelphia. By Jonathan Tannenwald for Philly.com.

How deep does the talent run in the USMNT player pool. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

Quarterfinal Schedule:

-Wed Jul 19

USA v El Salvador - 8pm CT on FS1

Lincoln Financial Field - Philadelphia

dN

Gold Cup

A discussion of the two top teams at this tournament - Mexico and USA. By Jeff Carlisle and Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

Word has it that Mexican team owners blocked any changes to the Gold Cup roster, denying coach Juan Carlos Osorio's requests.

Sorting through the 8 Quarterfinalists. By Avi Creditor for Sports Illustrated.

NOTE: If Qfinals + Sfinals are tied after 90 they go straight to Penalty Kick Shootout. In Final its 30 minutes extra time and then penalties. (Teams will also get 1 extra sub in extra time.)

Quarterfinals Schedule:

-Wed Jul 19

1 Costa Rica v Panama - 5:00pm CT on FS1

2 USA v El Salvador - 8:00pm CT on FS1

-----

-Thu Jul 20

3 Mexico v Honduras - 6:30pm CT on FS1

4 Jamaica v Canada - 9:30pm CT on FS1

-Follow the entire Gold Cup here.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

MNUFC trying to get Vadim Demidov off their roster and payroll. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Injured list: KVenegas, JVenegas, Danladi, Alvbage, Schuller, Burch.

Kallman and Molino trained with the regulars today.

With Calvo and Taylor still away for the Gold Cup, that leaves a very thin team with 2 games coming up this week.

Minn United's Special Olympics Unified team takes the field for the first time tomorrow night against Houston Dynamo Unified team. By Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

Stadium Cam

Schedule:

-Wed Jul 19

Minnesota v Houston 0 7:00pm CT on My29

-Sat Jul 22

Minnesota v New York Red Bulls - 3pm CT on ESPN

dN

MLS

Atlanta's Julian Gressel has been one of the league's biggest surprises in the first half of the season. Who is he? By Paul Tenorio for Four Four Two.

Week 20 schedule/results:

(First 7 of 18 Games)

-Wed Jul 19

Montreal v Philadelphia

New York Red Bulls v San Jose

New York City v Toronto

Minnesota v Houston

LA v Vancouver

Portland v Salt Lake

Seattle v DC

dN

Jose Mourinho on Real Salt Lake: "This team played well the first 30 minutes, well-coached and good understanding of the game. Two fast wingers, good midfield. I really like the way they played. I’m sorry they have game on Wednesday and couldn’t play with best team for 90 minutes." Manchester United beat RSL 1-2 last night in Sandy UT. From the Guardian.

dN

Nemanja Vukovic of Indy Eleven named NASL Player Of The Week

Andressinha of Houston Dash named NWSL Player Of The Week

Jason Johnson of Phoenix Rising named USL Player Of The Week

dN

Florida based business owner Robert Palmer has bought the Jacksonville Armada. It was previously owned and run by the NASL. By Clayton Freeman for the Florida Times Union.

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
