9 seconds!

-Thats how long it took Columbus to score against New York in the MLS Cup Playoffs Semifinal on Sunday.

dN

USA CONCACAF World Cup Qualifying Rd 4 Gm 4 on Mar 29 v Guatemala: MAPFRE Stadium in Columbus

dN

MLS Cup Playoffs

Semifinals 1st Leg Schedule

Sun Nov 22

Columbus 2-0 RBNY - CC goals by Justin Meram + Kei Kamara.

Portland 3-1 Dallas - PT goals by Liam Ridgewell, Dairon Asprilla + Nat Borchers. D goal by David Texiera.

-Top three goals of the round:

1. JM for CC

2. DA for PT

3. KK for CC

-A rare clean sheet for Columbus has to be a huge boost going on the road with a lead.

-New York's vaunted midfield was run off the field by the pressure of Columbus. Trapp, Tchani, Higuain, Finlay and Meram destroyed McCarty, Felipe, Kljestan, Grella and Sam. RB must turn the tables to advance.

-Dallas heads home with an important road goal and the best home record in MLS this season.

-Portland has good news and bad news: Diego Valeri + Rodney Wallace will return from suspension, but Liam Ridgewell left the game Sunday with a leg injury that is not new.

-The atmosphere in the stadiums in both Columbus and Portland was nuts!

-Luckily we don't have to watch any more MLS on fake turf this season.

Semifinals 2nd Leg Schedule

Sun Nov 29

Dallas v Portland Timbers (1-3) - 4pm CT on ESPN

New York Red Bulls v Columbus Crew (0-2) – 6:30pm CT on FS1

-Final on Sun Dec 6

dN

The great story of rising star Ethan Finlay, from Duluth to Columbus Crew (and beyond?) By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

dN

Teams from around the world call Sporting KC coach Peter Vermes constantly asking if he would be interested in running their team. So how much longer will he last at SKC and how does the club keep building in a fast growing league? By Sam McDowell of the Kansas City Star.

dN

du Nord Futbol 2015 MLS Best XI

G: Bill Hamid

FB: Tony Beltran + Kemar Lawrence

CB: Damien Perrinelle + Laurent Ciman

M: Ethan Finlay, Dax McCarty, Matias Laba + Fabian Castillo

F: Kei Kamara + Sebastian Giovinco

dN

What is the plan for the new owner of French 2nd division team Le Havre who just hired Bob Bradley. By Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated.

dN

What should Minnesota United's off season plan look like for the 2016 season? By Jon Marthaler of the Minneapolis Star Tribune.

dN

More Ottawa news: star forward Tom Heinemann has left the team and been signed by Tampa Bay Rowdies.

dN

Jacksonville has hired Tony Meola as their new head coach.

-He has never coached a professional team before.

dN

Former Minnesota player Simone Bracalello was released by Carolina RailHawks.

dN

The former president of Boca Juniors, Mauricio Macri, is the new president of slightly bigger "club." He is the new president of the country of Argentine. The election yesterday was on Sunday.

dN

Rumors floating around that the US Department of Justice may go after FIFA like a mafia family and seek to shut it down completely.

-And Sepp Blatter says he almost died two weeks ago. Story by RTS, via this article from the Irish Times.

dN

Great music for you to hear!

Mountain Singers new album "Listening Devices"

Find it + listen at Bandcamp, then buy it for a great price.

dN

Liga MX Apertura Laguilla is all set:

CF Pumas UNAM (1) v CD Tiburones Rojos Veracruz (8)

Deportivo Toluca FC (2) v Puebla FC (7)

Club Leon FC (3) v CF America (6)

Chiapas FC (4) v CF Tigres UANL (5)

-QF: Nov 25 + 26, Nov 28 + 29

-SF: Dec 2 + 3, Dec 5 + 6

-F: Dec 13, Dec 20

-All rounds are 2 Legs.

-In all proceeding rounds the highest seeds will be paired with the lowest remaining seeds.

-In Quarter +Semifinals away goals break ties, no extra time is played, and if still tied the higher seed advances.

-In Final away goals DO NOT break ties, and the game can go to Extra Added Time and a Penalty Kick Shootout if tied.

dN

The most stunning story in European club football right now is that after 13 rounds in England the team leading the Premier League is not Chelsea or Arsenal or either of the Manchesters, but Leicester City (with only 1 loss.) Who? Exactly! What a stunner.

-Of note though is that they have only played 1 game against a top team and got squashed 2-5 at home by Arsenal.

-Coming up in the next 6 games are Nov 28 v #2 Man U, Dec 19 at #7 Everton, Dec 26 at #8 Liverpool and Dec 29 v #3 Man City. Lets see where they stand come New Years Day.

dN

Sat Nov 12 at 11:15am CT

Real Madrid 0-4 Barcelona - Bar goals by Luis Suarez(2), Neymar + Andres Iniesta.

-It was an absolute crushing.

The Bird Is The Word
