It's Day 221 of 2017.

Today is the last day of the MLS international transfer window - there will be deals.

dN

Minnesota United roster moves:

Rasmus Schuller - out. Sent on loan back to Finland to play for 1st place HJK Helsinki.

Rasmus Schüller palaa Klubi-paitaan https://t.co/7Pt9tRT7GE#HJK #Veikkausliiga #OnVainYksiKlubi pic.twitter.com/PgIKNszwgA

— HJK Helsinki (@hjkhelsinki) August 9, 2017

Ethan Finlay - in?

Jose Leiton - in?

Bashkim Kadrii - out?

dN

Mexican star Rafa Marquez is among a group of people who have been named by the US Treasury Dept as having direct ties to a drug cartel boss named Raul Flores Hernandez of the Flores cartel.

All money and business dealings Marquez has in the USA have been frozen. Its highly likely he could enter the country without arrest.

The sanction says he has had long standing ties to Hernandez and been a front for him financially.

Details on each of the individuals involved.

"Marquez has a longstanding relationship with Flores Hernandez, and has acted as front person for him and his Drug Trafficking Organization, and held assets on Hernandez's behalf."

OFAC Kingpin action targets 22 Mexican Nationals & 43 entities—the largest Kingpin designation against a Mexican drug network pic.twitter.com/RaGfecYahf

— Treasury Department (@USTreasury) August 9, 2017

dN

DC United has made another big move on transfer day, signing American Paul Arriola from Tijuana.

dN

US Open Cup

Semifinals Schedule:

-Wed Aug 9

Sporting Kansas City v San Jose Earthquakes - 7:30pm CT via YouTube.

-Tue Aug 15

Cincinnati v New York Red Bulls

Priority order for hosting final:

1 Sporting Kansas City

2 New York Red Bulls

3 Cincinnati

dN

I firmly believe that a MLS team can be frugal and succeed. But you have to be exceptional at what you do. You need to be smarter, quicker, and harder working than your competition. And you probably need to be a little unorthodox too. It takes special people to pull this off.

dN

Brazen: du Nord Music Mix Vol 133 (download + extract)

dN

"We are streaming motherfuckers!"

-The Coen brothers announcement of a Western TV series on Netflix today called The Ballad of Buster Scruggs.

dN

MLS

People south of the border are taking notice of Carlos Vela and Jonathan Dos Santos moving to MLS. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

dN

USL

A new USL team has been announced for Birmingham AL, to begin play in 2019.

And Austin TX will be the home to another new USL team in 2019. They are building their own stadium on the grounds of the Circuit Of The Americas Formula One race track, and will be owned by the chairman of COTA Bobby Epstein. The race track is outside of Austin, about 30 minutes from downtown.

Don't forget that Fresno and Nashville join USL in 2018 as well.

dN

GUARDIAN 2017-18 PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM PREVIEWS:

Swansea

Stoke City

Southampton

Newcastle United

Manchester United

Manchester City

Liverpool

Liecester City

Huddersfield

Everton

Crystal Palace

Chelsea.

Brighton + Hove Albion

Burnley

Bournemouth

Arsenal

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

dN

The Bird Is The Word
