It's Day 343 of 2016.

For the first time one of the highly regarded members of the American soccer media is calling for Sunil Gulati to make way for someone new to lead US Soccer. By Steven Goff of the Washington Post.

Lots of criticism of Jurgen Klinsmann in this article too. Pulling no punches.

dN

MLS says they plan to start testing the Video Assistant Referee in the first half of next season and then using it in the 2nd half of the season. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

dN

MLS Cup - Final:

-Sat Dec 10

Toronto FC v Seattle Sounders FC - 7:00pm CT on FOX

Watch MLS Cup in Minneapolis with fellow fanatics:

Nomad Pub

501 Cedar S

West Bank

7pm CT

See you there!

dN

One year ago Jordan Morris was leading Stanford to the NCAA title, now he tries to do the same for the Sounders in MLS. One year in the life... By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times.

Brian Schmetzer became head coach of the Sounders with 2/3 of the season complete and the team in the tank. Getting to the Final is a big deal for the guy who still teaches high school science in his spare time. By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times. (that teacher part is a lie)

Sigi Schmidt was the Seattle coach who got fired which opened the door for Schmetzer, so what does he think of this run to the Final. By Matt Pentz of the Seattle Times.

Michael Bradley came to Toronto FC for exactly this moment. By Brian Straus of Sports Illustrated.

TFC went from the bottom to the top of MLS in 10 years, and in reality the last 3. (throw out those first 7) By Kurt Larson of the Toronto Sun.

Learning from the mistake of signing Jermaine Defoe could be the key to how Toronto FC has finally prospered. By Laura Armstrong of the Toronto Star.

TFC coach Greg Vanney surrounds himself with familiar faces. By Neil Davidson of the Globe and Mail.

Toronto FC also fights for the honor of soccer in Canada in the Final. By David Rudin of the Guardian.

dN

Manuel Lagos and Amos Magee are running the soccer side of Minnesota United these days. They grew up together. By Andy Greder of the Pioneer Press.

dN

All the hot topics around MLS this week are addressed. By Steve Davis at FC Dallas.

dN

Current NASL teams and where they stand for the future:

Minnesota United - MLS

Tampa Bay Rowdies - USL

Ottawa Fury - USL

Carolina RailHawks - new name and USL???

Indy Eleven - USL???

Jacksonville Armada - USL???

Miami - conflict with MLS, so USL or...???

New York Cosmos - fold

Fort Lauderdale Strikers - fold???

Rayo Oklahoma City - fold???

Puerto Rico - limbo/no word

Edmonton - holding out for NASL

dN

Tom Fath, owner of FC Edmonton, is not happy about everyone trying to stomp out the NASL, and remains bullish on the future. But he is saying NOTHING. By Steven Sandor of The 11.

dN

Person: du Nord Music Mix Vol 107 (download + extract)

dN

Simon Evans who writes great soccer stuff for the Washington Post and Reuters has started a podcast - The Soccer File. Check it out now on iTunes. Ep 3 is about the implosion of the NASL.

dN

Coming up this weekend in Europe:

-Sun Dec 11

Torino v Juventus - the Turin derby

Man United v Tottenham - big teams trying to keep pace but stuck in 6th + 5th.

PSG v Nice - #3 hosts the surprise #1 trailing them by 4 pts.

-Mon Dec 12

Roma v Milan - #2 v #3

Villarreal v Atletico Madrid - #5 v #4

The Bird Is The Word
