It's Day 136 of 2017.

Remarkable:

128 days after the accident and it felt amazing to get back on the field with my first minutes. Thankful for all the support to get back! https://t.co/mva8gQHktj

— Ryan Hollingshead (@rmhollingshead) May 15, 2017

If you don't know his story - this winter he stopped his car on an icy Dallas freeway to help a stranded motorist and was hit by another car, throwing him 30 feet down the road and leaving him badly busted up including a fractured neck and spine.

dN

US Open Cup resumes tonight - Schedule/Results.

26 Second Round games begin on May 16 - with USL and NASL teams entering the tournament.

dN

100% of nothing has changed at FIFA. Fatma Samoura, 2nd in command, has been firing people left and right for incorrect use of funds. But her incorrect use of funds last year was hidden by accountants. By Paul Nicholson for Inside World Football.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Everyone who watches MNUFC with me knows how many times I have said that Ibson would start for every team in MLS:

#MNUFC coach Adrian Heath told TSN that midfielder Ibson is the best player in training that he's worked with in his career.

— Andy Greder (@andygreder) May 13, 2017

The Ibson article. Plus a few more things. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

How do you fix this? Loons are a bad 0-4-2 on the road, with 3.2 goals per game allowed. Even if you take out the two 5 goal games its still 2.3 per game.

Next Schedule/Results:

-Sun May 21

Minnesota v LA - 4:00pm CT on ESPN.

dN

My Loons-centric Essay:

In preseason we constantly heard from national media how Minnesota was going to be terrible and Atlanta was going to be great. But we knew there was no way to judge that until they actually played games. Now 10 games into a 34 games season the two teams are pretty much even in the standings. And this week all the articles are saying "Wow we were wrong about both of them..... etc etc etc blah blah blah." Stories from then and now are still both wrong. Its Kneejerk City out there. The initial stories should have been about Atlanta's big spending leading to high expectations, and Minnesota's slow-to-react team building would cost them out of the starting gate. Nothing more than that. And now as Atlanta hits a tough spot and key injuries slow them down, Minnesota has brought in a couple stabilizing veterans and pulled some of the bullets out of their feet that they shot themselves. To my eyes right now Atlanta is playing at their worst and Minnesota at their best, which leads me to believe that Atlanta is the better of the two and that over 34 games, not 0, and not 10, they will prevail. But again, that's why they play the games, and I might just be wrong as I usually am. To improve Minnesota MUST fix this very thin roster - 1 or 2 key injuries combined with international call ups and they just might be right back where they were in weeks 1-4, getting clobbered. Minn did not expect to be this thin. They went out and signed 5 veteran players from Europe to go with their MLS and Central American/Caribbean players. But all the European players, minus one, have been a spectacular bust. The good find in the bunch was Jerry Thiessen. On the flip side the bad players have put the team salary cap up against the wall. Alvbage, Demidov, Kadrii, and Schuller have been pure lousy. Lets see how they fix the problem this summer. That will tell the story of Minnesota and Atlanta in their inaugural MLS season.

dN

According to @IMSoccerNews Minnesota governor has vetoed the bill containing the Minnesota United stadium provisions.

The veto had nothing to do with the stadium, just like last year. Other items in the bill were things the governor said from day 1 he would veto if they were left in.

I have no idea what happens now.

dN

MLS

Can anyone explain what just happened in Philly? No wins in the first 8 games and now the last two won 3-0 v Red Bulls and 0-4 at DC. Hard to conceive. By John Smallwood for the Philadelphia Daily News.

The most-excellent, dude, MLS weekly awards show, You Know It, You Love It. [VIDEO] By Ale Moreno for ESPNFC.

The best centerback pairs in the league. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

Gives Minnesota duo Kallman + Calvo something to shoot for. (I think they have been really good.)

Lots of strength lies in the Eastern Conference. By David Rudin for the Guardian.

Walker Zimmerman is on a fast rise and could be a big time star. By Arman Kafai for Dallas Morning News.

Even though RSL is missing a lot of players right now, they are still very very bad. By Christopher Kamrani for the Salt Lake Tribune.

Houston is at the other end of the world - flying high. Higher than even they thought they could at this point in this season. By Corey Roepken for the Houston Chronicle.

Week 12:

-Wed May 17

Philadelphia v Houston

Chicago v Colorado

Kansas City v Seattle

Salt Lake v New York City

San Jose v Orlando

(plus 11 more this weekend)

dN

Lance Laing of North Carolina Named NASL Player Of The Week

Nahomi Kawasumi of Seattle Reign Named NWSL Player Of The Week

Ian Svantesson of Tulsa Roughnecks Named USL Player Of The Week

Justin Meram of Columbus Crew Named MLS Player Of The Week

dN

I am loving this music! Bilaber by Otim Alpha - from the album Gulu City Anthems

dN

The day before 9/11 Osama Bin Laden sent his massive family into hiding. This is their story. by Cathy Scott-Clark and Adrian Levy for the Guardian.

dN

A list of 20 great young players under 20 years old. Its quite the list. By Ben Lyttleton for Sports Illustrated.

dN

English Championship division promotion playoffs:

Danny Williams and Reading have knocked Tim Ream and Fulham out of the playoffs.

2nd Leg

-Tue May 16

Reading 1-0 Fulham - Rea advances 2-1 on aggregate.

-Wed May 17

Sheff Wed v Huddersfield (0-0)

The Bird Is The Word
