It's Day 208 of 2017.

2 HUGE moves in the City of Angels professional soccer coaching ranks today!

1) Out goes Onalfo. In comes Schmid.

LA Galaxy fired head coach Curt Onalfo today and rehired their former coach Sigi Schmid.

And you won't believe who LA plays this Saturday in Schmid's first game? His former team Seattle Sounders! Nice.

2) But this is even bigger news, and more bad ass:

It's time.#WelcomeBob pic.twitter.com/yPlBVhqaOb

— LAFC (@LAFC) July 27, 2017

dN

Please go VOTE for my friend in football Tony Sanneh in the MLS Community MVP contest.

Minnesota United nominated Tony and his Sanneh Foundation for their great community work.

Show your love and vote here

dN

USMNT

Gold Cup Champions. For a sixth time.

My USMNT Notes:

Game highlights [VIDEO]

That was an important, although not that significant, win for this program.

Altidore hit a stonkin' free kick goal in the first half, and Morris blasted home late to win the game over a very rough and tumble and determined Jamaica team.

Morris got the game winner when everything was on the line. He had a strong tournament as a whole.

Jamaica lost goalkeeper Andre Blake in the first half with a hand injury on a play in which he made a big save that turned into a mad scramble.

Blake got stitches in his hand, but had no broken bones.

Dwayne Miller came on for JA in the goal and did a pretty damn good job himself.

Acosta had another rough night. He looked like he was trying way too hard in this whole tournament. He needs to settle down and keep it simple, or he will find himself out of the team until a later date.

Minnesota centerback Jermaine Taylor started for JA, and former Minn centerback Damion Lowe was his partner in the middle.

Bradley was so solid, dominating the center of the field, that he was awarded the Golden Ball as best player in the tournament.

Dempsey came on as a sub again and gave the USA a big boost. He really shook up the center of the JA defense.

The USA exploited the wings fairly well, but at times could have done a lot more with it. Getting to the end line can be devastating to a defense. This team needs more of that.

No one from the US had a bad game, even Acosta who struggled.

OGonzalez is getting back to his top form when he was a star for the LA Galaxy around 2010.

No USA break through players really emerged from this tournament. By Steve Davis for Four Four Two.

But Jordan Morris did cement his place in the main group, so that is something of significance.

Gold Cup Final Results:

-Wed Jul 26

USA 2-1 Jamaica - USA goals by Altidore + Morris. Jam goal by Watson.

Santa Clara CA - Levi's Stadium.

USA Roster

G: Jesse Gonzalez - Dallas, Bill Hamid - DC United, Tim Howard - Colorado Rapids

D: Matt Besler - Sporting Kansas City, Omar Gonzalez - Pachuca, Matt Hedges - Dallas, Eric Lichaj - Nottingham Forest, Matt Miazga - Chelsea, Justin Morrow - Toronto, Jorge Villafana - Santos Laguna, Graham Zusi - Sporting Kansas City

M: Kellyn Acosta - Dallas, Paul Arriola - Tijuana, Michael Bradley - Toronto, Joe Corona - Tijuana, Dax McCarty - Chicago Fire, Darlington Nagbe - Portland Timbers, Chris Pontius - Philadelphia Union, Gyasi Zardes - LA Galaxy

F: Juan Agudelo - New England Revolution, Jozy Altidore - Toronto, Clint Dempsey - Seattle Sounders, Jordan Morris - Seattle Sounders

Jamaica roster

G: Andre Blake - Philadelphia Union, Damion Hyatt - Arnett Gardens, Dwayne Miller - Syrianska

D: Sergio Campbell - Rochester Rhinos, Oniel Fisher - Seattle Sounders, Shaun Francis - Montreal Impact, Rosario Harriott - Harbour View, Kemar Lawrence - New York Red Bulls, Damion Lowe - Tampa Bay Rowdies, Alvas Powell - Portland Timbers, Ladale Ritchie - Montego Bay United, Jermaine Taylor - Minnesota United

M: Michael Binns - Portmore United, Owayne Gordon - Montego Bay United, Ewan Grandison - - Portmore United, Kevon Lambert - Montego Bay United, Ricardo Morris - Portmore United, Je-Vaughn Watson - New England Revolution

F: Cory Burke - Bethlehem Steel, Jermaine Johnson - Tivoli Gardens, Darren Mattocks - Portland Timbers, Shamar Nicholson - Boys' Town, Romario Williams - Charleston Battery

The Official Gold Cup Best XI:

Andre Blake

Graham Zusi

Kemar Lawrence

Jermaine Taylor

Omar Gonzalez

Michael Bradley

Jesus Duenas

Darlington Nagbe

Alphonso Davies

Jordan Morris

Jozy Altidore

With that tournament now out of the way Bruce Arena wants the team to take it up another notch for the 4 huge World Cup qualifiers ahead. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

dN

USWNT

The USA Women hosts the 4 team Tournament of Nations (odd name) which begins tonight with a lot of new blood in the team. By Caitlin Murray for the New York Times.

Australia, Brazil and Japan are the other 3 teams.

dN

Navel: du Nord Music Mix Vol 131 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Columbus head coach Gregg Berhalter last night went off on the referees, and divers, in his post game press conference after his team got two red cards (on 2 of their 3 defenders) AND blown out by Philadelphia. The spirit of Mike Petke is spreading:

Gregg Berhalter upset with officials after 3-0 #CrewSC loss pic.twitter.com/otWYMYVH6x

— Andrew Erickson (@AEricksonCD) July 27, 2017

Week 21 schedule:

(12 games)

-Wed Jul 26

Philadelphia 3-0 Columbus

-Sat Jul 29

Atlanta v Orlando - 3:30pm CT on FOX

New England v Philadelphia

New York Red Bulls v Montreal

Dallas v Vancouver

Houston v Portland

Kansas City v Chicago

Minnesota v DC

Salt Lake v Columbus

San Jose v Colorado

LA v Seattle - 9:00pm CT on ESPN

-Sun Jul 30

Toronto v New York City - 1:00pm CT on ESPN

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
