Dallas did not pick up the contract option of bruising defensive midfielder Simo Valakari. Does this mean he is gone (they just traded for Adrian Serioux who plays the same position), or will they try to negotiate a lower price with him for next season. They also failed to pick up options on keeper Jeff Cassar and defender Bobby Rhine. Their young striker Roberto Mina is also out of contract because his load deal from Nacional has ended.

The Kraft Family owns both the New England Revolution of MLS and Patriots of NFL. They have one philosophy. Win on the cheap. That's why they hired coach Steve Nicol. Therefore Frank Dell'apa of the Boston Globe writes an article on the obvious - Nicol is not going to change his ways.

From MLSnet - Jeff's Bradley's weekly First XI: Unsolved mysteries

A Young MLS Select-Team is playing a series of exhibition throughout England this week, starting with a 2-0 win over QPR Reserves today. Here is the game schedule:

-MLS 2-0 QPR Reserves - Colorado's Jacob Peterson & New York's David Arvizu got the goals.

-Dec 5 v Crystal Palace Reserves - no word on the score yet

-Dec 7 v Watford Reserves

-Dec 8 v Chelsea Reserves

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America examines the implications of the matches just announced for the 2007 season opening weekend.

-Nick Green at the Carson Daily Breeze looks the same games, with a LA-centric view.

-Here are those opening weekend games:

Saturday April 7

-Columbus v New York

-Colorado v DC

-Chivas v Toronto

-Chicago v New England

-Dallas v Salt Lake

Sunday April 8

-Houston v Los Angeles

Bye Week (no match)

-Kansas City

Andrew Hush of Soccer New England talks to Rev's coach Stevie Nicol about the upcoming draft.

Toronto fans are very upset that their team is going to have to start their life on the road. First two games will be away from the new home. I have gotten several emails from fans wanting me to help push their cause in getting this decision changed. Good luck folks. I do appreciate your passion. But I don't think it's going to happen. Are you even sure your stadium is going to be ready for week 1?

Toronto FC has also officially announced that former KC & USA head coach Bob Gansler will be an assistant coach to Mo Johnston. This is one of the worst kept secrets of all time. Mike Matkovich & Carmine Issaco will also join the coaching staff.

Tons of rumors flying around that New York is looking at Dutch keeper Ronald Waterreus who last played for Rangers. But he is old, and I see no reason for him to be hired to replace the just released Tony Meola.

Andrea Canales at Soccer365 says the only thing she wants for Christmas is a USA coach, pleeeeeeeeease.

First Touch has an in-depth interview with American defender Jay DeMerit of Watford in England. Big thanks to Kevin for sending us this.

UEFA CL M6 Games today and tomorrow:

-The last round of the group stages. The 10 teams with an * are already through to the knock out stage. That leaves 6 spots open.

Tuesday-

Barcelona v Bremen

Chelsea* v Levski

Sporting v Spartak Moskva

Bayern* v Inter*

Galatasaray v Liverpool*

PSV* v Bordeaux

Olympiacos v Shakhtar

Roma v Valencia*

Wednesday-

Dynamo Kyiv v Real Madrid*

Lyon* v Steaua

Man United v Benfica

Kobenhavn v Celtic*

Porto v Arsenal

Hamburg v CSKA Moskva

Anderlecht v AEK

Milan* v Lille
