It's Day 258 of 2017.

USMNT

Bobby Wood missing Hamburger's game today against Hannover due to a lingering knee injury. The USA does not need another injured forward with Jordan Morris already out.

The story circulating is that the USMNT's World Cup Qualifier in Trinidad + Tobago on Oct 10 will be played in the the small town of Couva instead of the capital Port Of Spain! The local Ato Boldon Stadium is generally used for track and field and only holds 10,000. T+T league team Central FC plays its home games there. Its is about an hour sound of Port Of Spain.

US Soccer always waits to announce these things until every contract has been signed and its a done deal. Which this is not, yet.

Lets check in with those injuries. By Avi Creditor for Sports Illustrated.

dN

NASL

The NASL has a "secret" board meeting next week that could determine their future fate. All speculation from inside source and a credible journalist. By Brian Straus for Sports Illustrated.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

Schedule:

-Sat Sep 16

Montreal Impact v Minnesota - 6:30pm CT on FOX29

Francisco Calvo flew to meet the team in Montreal. The new dad already back out bringin home the bacon.

No word on what kind of shape Brent Kallman is in, or what the injury that took him out of the last game was. We shall see. If I was guessing I say he doesn't play. He keeps coming back ASAP from injuries.

Not that I expect to see any these guys in Minnesota, but these 11 MLS players will all be free agents after this season. By Paul Tenorio for Four Four Two.

I am not sure I would take any of them. Would you?

Meet Montreal's newest top notch player Blerim Dzemaili. By Stu Cowan for the Montreal Gazette.

Montreal stats and shit:

Their undoubted top player is Ignaccio Piatti who can make any team in MLS look really bad at any time.

Piatti leads the team with 15 goals.

Anthony Jackson-Hamel is the 2nd best goal scorer with 7.

Dzemaili is next with 6 goals.

Matteo Mancuso has 4 goals.

Dzemaili also has 8 assists.

They also have a ton of speed with Ballou Jean-Yves Tabla and Dominic Oduro.

The Impact have lost 3 in a row including the first two of those at home.

They are ripe for a Minnesota picking.

Stade Saputo holds just over 20,000.

dN

Asking: du Nord Music Mix Vol 138 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

The all-time attendance record for a MLS game was set on opening day of the league in 1996 - LA Galaxy drew 69,255 to the Rose Bowl. Well folks, that record is about to change. Atlanta has already sold more ticket then that for their home game this Saturday against Orlando.

Week 28 Schedule:

(13 games)

-Wed Sep 13

Atlanta 7-0 New England

Vancouver 3-0 Minnesota

-Sat Sep 16

Atlanta v Orlando

Vancouver v Columbus

Montreal v Minnesota

Dallas v Seattle

Chicago v DC

Kansas City v New England

Colorado v New York City

Salt Lake v Portland

LA v Toronto

San Jose v Houston

-Sun Sep 17

New York RB v Philadelphia

dN

COPA LIBERTADORES

A shocking upset on Thu night as huge underdogs Wilstermann blew out River Plate 3-0. That 2nd leg at El Monumental should be a doozy.

Quarterfinals Schedule:

Leg One

-Wed Sep 13

Barcelona (Ecu) 1-1 Santos (Bra)

Botafogo (Bra) 0-0 Gremio (Bra)

San Lorenzo (Arg) 2-0 Lanus (Arg)

-Thu Sep 14

Wilstermann (Bol) 3-0 River Plate (Arg)

dN

Premier League: 10 things to look out for this weekend. From the Guardian.

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPES TOP LEAGUES:

-Sat Sep 16

Watford v Manchester City

Bayern v Mainz

Getafe v Barcelona

Liverpool v Burnley

Tottenham v Swansea

Werder Bremen v Schalke

Leipzig v Monchengladbach

Crotone v Inter

Roma v Hellas Verona

Atletico Madrid v Malaga

Monaco v Strasbourg

-Sun Sep 17

Chelsea v Arsenal

Sassuolo v Juventus

Real Sociedad v Real Madrid

PSG v Lyon

Manchester United v Everton

Dortmund v Koln

Milan v Udinese

Napoli v Benevento

Girona v Sevilla

Amiens v Marseille

The Bird Is The Word
