STARTERS

Bob Bradley will announce the preliminary USA World Cup 30 player roster on Tuesday at 1pm Central live on ESPN News. Set your dvr now.

dN

Bayern Munich are German Bundesliga Champions for 2009/10! Hooray land of 1,300 breweries!

dN

Chelsea are the English Premier League Champions for 2009/10. Hooray Porter & Bitters!

dN

Benfica are the Portuguese Liga Champions for 2009/10! Hooray Cerveja!

BIG EURO LEAGUES TITLE RACE WEEKEND MATCHES

That's it for the English Premier League, German Bundesliga and Portuguese Liga.

dN

Next weekend we see the champions crowned in Italy and Spain.

dN

Top Premier League Team Standings (38 of 38 games played)

86 Chelsea - Final: Sun May 9 W 8-0 v Wigan

85 Manchester United - Final: Sun May 9 W 4-0 v Stoke

dN

Top Bundesliga Team Standings (34 of 34 games played)

70 Bayern Munich - Final: Sat May 8 W 1-3 at Hertha Berlin

65 Schalke - Final: Sat May 8 D 1-1 at Mainz

dN

Raphael Honigstein of the Guardian on Bayern winning it all, then putting on matching red checked shirts to celebrate, and the rest of the final weekend in the Bundesliga season.

dN

Top Liga Team Standings (30 of 30 games played)

76 Benfica - Final: Sun May 9 W 2-1 v Rio Ave

71 Braga - Final: Sun May 9 D 1-1 at Nacional de Madeira

dN

Top Primera Division Team Standings (37 of 38 games played)

96 Barcelona - Last: Sat May 8 W 2-3 at Sevilla - Final: Sun May 16 v Valladolid

95 Real Madrid - Last: Sat May 8 W 5-1 v Athletic Bilbao - Final: Sun May 16 at Malaga

dN

Sid Lowe of the Guardian on Barcelona stepping right up to the edge of the Championship, and the rest of the weekend in La Liga.

dN

Top Serie A Team Standings (37 of 38 games played)

79 Inter - Last: Sun May 9 W 4-3 v Chievo - Final: Sun May 16 at Siena

77 Roma - Last: Sun May 9 W 2-1 v Cagliari - Final: Sun May 16 at Chievo

BAYERN MUNICH & INTER MILAN: THE RACE FOR THREE

The two teams will meet in the Champions League Final, and they are both hoping to win the coveted triple - that's the three main trophies in one season: League Championship, League Cup and European Cup.

Bayern:

*Bundesliga - Won the league championship on Sat May 8.

DFB Pokal - In the final on Sat May 15 v Werder Bremen.

Champions League - In the final on Sat May 22 v Inter Milan.

Inter:

Serie A - In 1st place, with a 2 point lead and 1 game left to play.

*Coppa Italia - Won the league Cup on Wed May 5 1-0 over Roma.

Champions League - In the final on Sat May 22 v Bayern Munich.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

The World Game (in Australia) commenting on the selection of countries to host the World Cup in 2018 and 2022: "I can’t see England not getting 2018 and USA not nabbing 2022."

FACT OF THE DAY

Liverpool finished in 7th place in the Premier League, their lowest ended spot in 11 years.

STORY OF THE DAY

Simon Kuper of the Financial Times with an article on Inter & Cameroon striker Samuel Eto'o, who has a reputation for being very egotistical, or is it that he just hates hates hates to lose.

TWITTERVERSE

Three from DaMarcus Beasley on Sunday afternoon:

1) "Great way to end the season.. Atmoshpere was AMAZING!! Enjoyed my time at rangers, loved all the fans! Thanks for the support and love!"

2) "Will always have love for glasgow and of course RANGERS!! time to open a new chapter in my book! Look forward to the upcomin months!!"

3) "Yes Im leaving for everyone that asked.. Will never forget my time at RANGERS!! Thanks for all the messages from the best fans in the world!"

So now we know that DaMarcus is done at Rangers. Good luck on the next move amigo.

THIS IS WHAT ITS ALL ABOUT

"What The World Cup Means To Me"

From the great folks who bring us EPL Talk and MLS Talk comes a very cool eBook celebrating the World Cup!

Check this out:

Released today, "What The World Cup Means To Me" is a free eBook featuring stories from 21 of the top soccer writers and personalities from around the world. They include Tim Vickery from BBC World Football Phone-In, Simon Kuper (co-author of Soccernomics), ESPN's Rebecca Lowe and Tommy Smyth, Setanta's Paul Dempsey, Misha Sher, This Is American Soccer's Adam Spangler and many others.

Published by EPL Talk sister site WorldCupBuzz.com, the eBook answers the simple question -- what does the World Cup mean to me. Answering it are some of the biggest names in soccer. We're also encouraging readers to share their own story of what the World Cup means to them.

The eBook is available right here.

WHY NOT!

Seattle Sounders has announced that due to their embarrassing loss to LA on Saturday (0-4), the team will credit season ticket holders with one free game for next season.

WHY?

CONCACAF has sent FIFA a new World Cup qualifying plan for approval. The new plan will still see the initial home and away knock out round, followed by THREE group stages, instead of two. WTF? The reason is "guaranteeing more early round matches" and "provide substantially more playing opportunities while producing a fair and compelling qualifying competition." Yes, the smaller teams want more games so they to can make money while playing the big boys. We all know the outcomes will be exactly the same as before, but now our team will have to play even more games. And in the end the exact same 8-9 teams will be in the race for the final 6 team round. Another Jack Warner money grab!

MLS WEEK 7

7 games this past weekend.

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 8

Seattle Sounders FC 0-4 Los Angeles Galaxy - LAG goals by Jovan Kirovski, Omar Gonzalez, Todd Dunivant & Landon Donovan.

Venue: Qwest Field - Seattle WA

Attendance: 36,273

Toronto FC 4-1 Chicago Fire - TFC goals by Nick LaBrocca, O'Brian White & Chad Barrett(2). CF goal by Logan Pause.

Venue: BMO Field - Toronto ON

Attendance: 20,060

Columbus Crew 3-2 New England Revolution - CC goals by Eddie Gaven, Cory Gibbs(OG) & Robbie Rogers. NER goals both by Zak Boggs.

Venue: Crew Stadium - Columbus OH

Attendance: 10,197

Real Salt Lake 3-0 Philadelphia Union - RSL goals by Kyle Beckerman, Jamison Olave & Alvaro Saborio.

Venue: Rio Tinto Stadium - Sandy UT

Attendance: 14,224

FC Dallas 1-0 DC United - FCD goal by Jeff Cunningham.

Venue: Pizza Hut Park - Frisco TX

Attendance: 10,323

San Jose Earthquakes 4-0 New York Red Bulls - SJE goals by Ryan Johnston, Joey Gjertsen, Chris Wondolowski & Bobby Burling.

Venue: Buck Shaw Stadium - Santa Clara CA

Attendance: 9,711

Chivas USA 0-2 Houston Dynamo - HD goals by Brad Davis & Adrian Serioux.

Venue: Home Depot Center - Carson Ca

Attendance: 12,577

dN

EJECTIONS:

Luke Sassano - New York - red card

MLS TEAM & PLAYER NEWS

Landon Donovan of Los Angeles has been named MLS Player of the Week.

dN

Steve Davis of Sports Illustrated with 5 things we learned from MLS games this weekend, the big one being the terrible week for goalkeepers.

dN

Kyle McCarthy of Goal.com with his Monday Morning Breakdown of the weekend in MLS. Are the Crew starting to warm up their big machine, and many other tasty theories.

dN

Charles Gooch of the Kansas City Star reviews the weekend with his Winners and Losers.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer talks to former Red Bulls defender Chris Leitch about his former head coach Juan Carlos Osorio.

DU NORD PLAYER OF THE WEEK

The du Nord Player of the Week is Kevin Hartman of FC Dallas. He did an incredible job keeping DC United off the score board in the first have of their 1-0 win.

MY THOUGHTS

On MLS Week 7:

25 goals in 7 games on Saturday, and not one from the penalty spot. And only 1 own goal. Amazing.

dN

And on top of that, only 1 red card.

dN

Chris Wondolowski of San Jose has 4 goals in their last 4 games. I bet Houston wish they had him back now!

dN

Two fantastic team goals from San Jose! Just watch the great quick one and two touch passing through 4 or 5 players, paired with incredible movement off the ball, and nice finishing. I love this stuff:

-Ryan Johnson goal

-Chris Wondolowski goal

dN

How did this happen? For the third week in a row San Jose might have been the most entertaining team in the league!

dN

Jack McInerney got his first professional start in Philadelphia, and he is just 17 years old. Wow.

dN

Who in the hell is Zak Boggs and how did he score not one but two goals by New England this weekend?

dN

Tim Ream of New York finally looked like a rookie - got smoked several times for goals.

dN

Miguel Montano, who looks like a less style conscious Cristiano Ronaldo, made his debut for Seattle.

dN

Dallas attacking midfielder David Ferreira is flying under most people's radar, but since he found his groove in the middle of last season he has been a great player.

dN

Erik Avila of Dallas is turning into one of my favorite players to watch! He has been mainly used as a sub, and when he steps on the field, their offense takes a leap forward. And he loooves to shoot, with pretty damn good acuracy too. I think he could be a great one in MLS.

dN

I also think Avila should be one of the first new guys called into Team USA after the World Cup.

dN

Have we ever seen 1 player carry an entire team in MLS the way Dwayne DeRosario is carrying Toronto. Wow. This is the best he has EVER played, and that is saying something.

dN

Seattle looks to have really blown it my not adding any key components or even contributing draft picks in the off season. I was wondering why so many people were picking them to go far in the preseason when they team was barely changed from last years big time over achievement.

dN

Zach Thornton is not the keeper he was last season, and appears to be turning into Snacks Thornton again. Bring on Dan Kennedy at Chivas.

MLS RUMORS

Big Apple Soccer with word on Juan Pablo Angel going to Veracruz in the Mexican 2nd division.

MLS EXHIBITIONS

All of Rangers games this summer in the USA have been canceled.

USSF DIVISION 2

Tampa Bay drew just over 8000 to their home debut. Great job!

dN

Matches & Scores:

-Sat May 8

Montreal Impact 2-1 NSC Minnesota Stars

Rochester Rhinos 2-1 AC St Louis

Vancouver Whitecaps 0-0 Crystal Palace Baltimore

Tampa Bay Rowdies 2-2 Austin Aztex

Miami FC Blues 1-1 Carolina RailHawks

-Thu May 13

Portland Timbers v Crystal Palace Baltimore

-Fri May 14

Carolina RailHawks v Tampa Bay Rowdies

-Sat May 15

NSC Minnesota Stars v Miami FC Blues

Portland Timbers v AC St Louis

Vancouver Whitecaps v Montreal Impact

-Sun May 16

Austin Aztex v Crystal Palace Baltimore

dN

Standings (As of Sun May 10):

11 Rochester - 6 played

10 Portland - 4 played

10 Austin - 5 played

8 Vancouver - 5 played

7 Montreal - 4 played

6 Puerto Rico - 3 played

6 Minnesota - 7 played

5 Carolina - 4 played

5 Tampa Bay - 4 played

4 Miami - 4 played

3 St Louis - 5 played

1 Baltimore - 4 played

dN

Standings based on Points Per Game:

2.50 Portland

2.00 Puerto Rico

2.00 Austin

1.83 Rochester

1.75 Montreal

1.60 Vancouver

1.25 Carolina

1.25 Tampa Bay

1.00 Miami

0.86 Minnesota

0.60 St Louis

0.25 Baltimore

USA WORLD CUP 2010 SOUTH AFRICA

FIFA.com has a Q & A with Landon Donovan.

dN

Sports Illustrated's cast of writers predict the USA 23 player roster.

-Guys, why are you picking the 23, when the shortlist hasn't even been announced. Slow down, there is no prize for being first.

dN

The Washington Post reports that (for unknown reasons) 3 players will be invited to the USA training camp but will not be there immediately: Eddie Johnson, Chad Marshall and Heath Pearce.

dN

The big question today is, what is the health of the following players?

-Carlos Bocanegra - abdominal muscle

-Oguchi Onyewu - tendon rupture

-Charlies Davies - multiple injuries

-Jay DeMerit - hamstring

-Stuart Holden - fractured leg

-Brian Ching - hamstring

-DaMarcus Beasley - is he hurt?

dN

The full season in Germany came and went without Jermaine Jones seeing a single minute on a game day roster for Schalke, meaning for all intents and purposes its surgery time. I would be completely stunned if he made the USA training camp roster.

USA U20 TEAM

The USA U20's will participate in the Cor Groenewegen Tournamentin Netherlands beginning Sat May 22.

South Africa has replaced Egypt at the last minute.

Warm-up Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Tue May 18

USA v Senegal

-Thu May 20

USA v South Korea

Group Stage Matches & Scores - Begins May 22:

(Exact Dates TBA)

Round 1

Uitgeest v Cruz Azul

Senegal v Twente

South Korea v Canada

Heerenveen v Atletico Mineiro

South Africa v Utrecht

Japan v USA

Round 2

Twente v South Korea

Canada v Cruz Azul

Uitgeest v Senegal

Utrecht v Japan

USA v Atletico Mineiro

Heerenveen v South Africa

Round 3

Senegal v Canada

South Korea v Cruz Azul

Twente v Uitgeest

South Africa v USA

Japan v Atletico Mineiro

Utrecht v Heerenveen

Round 4

Uitgeest v South Korea

Twente v Canada

Cruz Azul v Senegal

Atletico Mineiro v South Africa

Utrecht v USA

Heerenveen v Japan

Round 5

Cruz Azul v Twente

South Korea v Senegal

Uitgeest v Canada

Heerenveen v USA

South Africa v Japan

Atletico Mineiro v Utrecht

USA U17 TEAM

George Dohrmann of Sports Illustrated brings us up to date on Wilmar Cabrera's new class of U17s.

USA WORLD CUP 2018/22 BID

The USA will be the last of 9 countries to submit their bid for the 2 World Cups to FIFA on Fri May 14.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

Eddie Johnson has scored in all 3 playoff games for Aris.

dN

Benny Feilhaber did not play in the final pivotal game for AGF Aarhus, and even though they won, they were still relegated. Oof.

dN

On the other hand, the boy we want to adopt Yura Movsisyan helped save Randers bacon with another win (and of course another goal) as they survived relegation on the final day. He finished the season with 6 goals in 11 games. Not too shabby.

dN

Jonathan Spector didn't play in the final game of the season for West Ham. Will he be there next season?

dN

Stuart Holden finally saw the field again after breaking his leg on Mar 3 in Amsterdam.

dN

Steve Cherundolo & Hannover got a huge road win to save them from relegation! Was that his last game in Germany before heading home to MLS?

dN

Run DMB did not dress for Rangers final game of the season. I guess that's it then.

dN

Yanks Abroad lets fans write the question for a Q & A with Clarence Goodson.

dN

YA also reports that Eintract Frankfurt appear to be set on giving Ricardo Clark a full 3 year contract, after a successful run in the first at the end of this season.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

DENMARK - Superliga

Michael Parkhurst - Nordsjaelland - went the full 90, got a yellow card and lost at home 0-1 to Aarhus.

ENGLAND - Premier League

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - started and played 67 minutes, getting a yellow card as they lost 4-0 at Arsenal.

Brad Friedel - Aston Villa - played the entire match as he has all season but lost 0-1 at home to Blackburn.

Marcus Hahnemann - Wolverhampton - played the whole match and won 2-1 at home over Sunderland.

Stuart Holden - Bolton - came on as a sub in the 66th minute.

Tim Howard - Everton - went the distance and won 1-0 at hom over Portsmouth.

ENGLAND - League One

Jemal Johnson - Stockport County - came on as a 71st minute sub but lost at home 0-3 to Tranmere.

Eric Lichaj - Leyton Orient - played the whole game but lost at Colchester United 1-0.

Jon-Paul Pittman - Wycombe - went the full 90 and won 3-0 at home over Gillingham.

GERMANY - Bundesliga

Michael Bradley - Monchengladbach - played the entire game and drew 1-1 at home against Bayer Leverkusen.

Steve Cherundolo - Hannover - went the full 90 and won 0-3 at Bochum.

Ricardo Clark - Eintracht Frankfurt - went the distance but lost at Wolfsburg 3-1.

Greece - Super League

Eddie Johnson - Aris Thessalonika - went the distance and scored a goal but lost 4-2 at AEK.

NETHERLANDS - Nacompetitie

Charles Kazlauskas - Helmond Sport - went the full 90, getting a yellow card and losing 2-0 at Sparta Rotterdam, which knocks them out of the post season on a 3-2 aggregate.

NORWAY - Eliteserien

Mikkel Diskerud - Stabaek - went the distance as they won 2-1 at home over Brann.

Hunter Freeman - Start - played the whole game but lost 1-0 at Tromso.

Clarence Goodson - Start - played the whole game but lost 1-0 at Tromso.

SCOTLAND - Premier League

Maurice Edu - Rangers - started and went 72 minutes as they drew 3-3 at home against Motherwell.

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Alejandro Bedoya - Orebro - went the distance, got a yellow card, and won 1-0 at home over Djurgarden.

Ryan Miller - Halmstad - went the full match but lost 1-2 at home to Hacken.

dN

Coming Up: (all possible players are listed)

GREECE - Super League European Tournament Playoffs:

Freddy Adu - Wed May 12 v AEK Athens - Round 4 of 6

Eddie Johnson - Wed May 12 v AEK Athens - Round 4 of 6

RUSSIA - Premier Division

Yevgeni Starikov - FC Tom Tomsk - Tue May 11 at Saturn Moscow

SWEDEN - Allsvenskan Liga

Johan Smith - Kalmar - Mon May 10 at Brommapojkarna

AMERICANS IN MEXICO

PRIMERA DIVISION - Liguilla

Miguel Ponce - Guadalajara - started and went 71 minutes but they lost 1-2 at home to Pachuca in the Playoffs and are not eliminated.

Jose Torres - Pachuca - went the full 90 as they won 1-2 at Monterrey and advance 5-2 to the Semifinals.

CONCACAF

CONCACAF International Friendly Matches & Scores:

-Mon May 10

Mexico v Senegal - in Chicago

-Thu May 13

Mexico v Angola - in Houston

MEXICO

The Los Angeles Times with a big article on the most popular soccer team in America - the Mexican national team. Thanks to LA-JJ for this one.

dN

Clausura 2010 playoffs:

-Pachuca knock off the defending champs and #1 seed Monterrey!!

-While Morelia send home the big boys from Chivas.

-America is out at the hands of Toluca!

-Pumas win but can't overcome the first leg and are knocked out by Santos Laguna.

dN

Matches & Scores - Quarterfinals:

2nd Leg

-Sat May 8

Monterrey 1-2 Pachuca

-Pac advance 3-1 on aggregate - Mon goal by Osvaldo Martínez. Pac goals by Edy Brambila & Luis Montes.

Guadalajara 0-1 Morelia

- Mor advance 5-2 on aggregate - Mor goal by Elías Hernandez.

-Sun May 9

Toluca 2-0 America

-Tol advance 4-2 on aggregate - Tol goals by Zinha & Manuel Perez.

UNAM 1-0 Santos Laguna

- SL advance 2-1 on aggregate - UNAM goal by Ismael Iniquez.

dN

Matches & Scores - Semifinals:

1st Leg

-Wed May 12

Morelia v Santos Laguna

Pachuca v Toluca

2nd Leg

-Sat May 15

Santos Laguna v Morelia

Toluca v Pachua

ENGLAND

John Ashdown of the Guardian with five things we learned from watching football this weekend.

dN

Patrick Barclay of The Times ponders any weaknesses in Fabio Capello's England set up.

dN

Newcastle & West Bromich Albion have been promoted back up from the Championship.

-And 4 more teams will playoff for the last promotion spot:

Semifinal Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Sat May 8

Blackpool 2-1 Nottingham Forest

-Sun May 9

Leicester City 0-1 Cardiff City

2nd Leg

-Tue May 11

Nottingham Forest v Blackpool (1-2)

-Wed May 12

Cardiff City v Leicester City (1-0)

dN

Didier Drogba of Chelsea wins the Golden Boot.

Top Goal Scorers in the Premier League:

29 Didier Drogba - Chelsea

26 Wayne Rooney - Manchester United

24 Darren Bent - Sunderland

23 Carlos Tevez - Manchester City

22 Frank Lampard - Chelsea

SPAIN

With just 1 game left to be played NO ONE has been officially relegated! Unreal.

Teams #16-20 are all possible for La Liga relegation with now just 1 round left to play (40 points is the safety line right now) - 3 go down:

SAFE-44 Espanyol

SAFE-42 Osansuna

SAFE-42 Almeria

SAFE-40 Sporting Gijon

SAFE-40 Real Zaragoza

36 Valladolid

36 Malaga

- - - - -

36 Racing Santander

36 Tenerife

33 Xerez

dN

Top Goal Scorers in La Liga:

32 Lionel Messi - Barcelona

27 Gonzalo Higuaín - Real Madrid

26 Cristiano Ronaldo - Real Madrid

21 David Villa - Valencia

FRANCE

Top Goal Scorers in Ligue 1:

17 Mamadou Niang - Marseilles

16 Kevin Gameiro - Lorient

14 Lisandro Lopez - Lyon

14 Anderson Luiz de Carvalho Nene - Monaco

14 Mevlut Erding - Paris St Germain

14 Ireneusz Jelen - Auxerre

GERMANY

Kevin Kuranyi's contract is up with Schalke and it is reported that he has signed with Dynamo Moscow and will join up with them when the summer transfer window opens.

dN

The struggle against relelgation will see 3 teams fail (bottom 2 go down automatically, and 3rd from bottom plays 3rd from top in B2 in a 2 legged playoff) (32 is the safety number) - with the season over here is how they ended up:

SAFE-33 Hannover

- - - - -

PLAYOFF-31 Nurnberg

- - - - -

OUT-28 Bochum

OUT-24 Hertha Berlin

Nurnberg will now take on Augsburg for the final relegation/promotion spot.

dN

Edin Dzeko of Wolfsburg wins the Golden Boot.

Top Goal Scorers in the Bundesliga:

22 Edin Dzeko - Wolfsburg

21 Stefan Kiessling - Bayer Leverkusen

19 Lucas Barrios - Borussia Dortmund

18 Kevin Kuranyi - Schalke

16 Arjen Robben - Bayern Munich

16 Claudio Pizarro - Werder Bremen

ITALY

Paulo Bandini of the Guardian on Sampdoria and Palermo battling it out for a Champions League spot next season, they would both be good fun in the Group Stage, and the rest of the weekend in Serie A.

dN

Gabriele Marcotti of The Times sees no honor in Lazio fans cheering on Inter just to stick it to Roma.

dN

Atlanta joins Siena and Livorno in being sent packing.

Relegation from Serie A happens to the bottom 3 teams (40 is the lucky number) - there is 1 games left to be played:

SAFE-43 Lazio

SAFE-42 Catania

SAFE-41 Bologna

- - - - -

OUT-35 Atalanta

OUT-31 Siena

OUT-29 Livorno

dN

Top Goal Scorers in Serie A:

28 Antonio Di Natale - Udinese

21 Diego Milito - Inter

19 Fabrizio Miccoli - Palermo

18 Giampaolo Pazzini - Sampdoria

ARGENTINA

Marcela Mora y Aurajo of Sports Illustrated on Diego Milito's chances of being on the Argentine World Cup squad.

dN

Estudiantes fell flat on their face with a scoreless draw opening the top spot for Arg Jrs to take, which they did. Est also saw their leader Juan Sebastian Veron red carded so he will miss the final game of the season as well!

dN

Top Primera Division Team Standings (17 of 19 games played)

38 Argentinos Juniors - Last: Sun May 9 W 4-3 v Independiente - Final: Sun May 16 at Huracan

37 Estudiantes la Plata - Last: Sun May 9 D 0-0 v Rosario Central - Final: Sun May 16 at Colon de Santa Fe

CAN'T WIN-31 Godoy Cruz - Next: Mon May 10 v Colon de Sante Fe - Final: Sun May 16 at Arsenal de Sarandi

CAN'T WIN-31 Independiente - Last: Sun May 9 L 4-3 at Argenintos Juniors - Final: Sun May 16 v Lanus

COPA LIBERTADORES

Matches & Scores - Quarterfinals:

1st Leg

-Tue May 11

Guadalajara v Libertad

-Wed May 12

Cruzeiro v Sao Paulo

Flamengo v Universidad de Chile

-Thu May 13

Internacional v Estudiantes de la Plata

2nd Leg

-Tue May 18

Libertad v Guadalajara

-Wed May 19

Sao Paulo v Cruzeiro

-Thu May 20

Universidad de Chile v Flamengo

Estudiantes de la Plata v Internacional

Away goals is the tie breaker.

dN

Here is the full Knockout Stage Bracket:

16 Flamengo - 8 Universidad de Chile

5 Libertad - 13 Guadalajara

- - - - -

3 Estudiantes de la Plata - 6 Internacional

10 Cruzeiro - 2 Sao Paulo

WORLD CUP 2010 - SOUTH AFRICA

Kick Off describes chaos in the South Africa team with 2 team administrators being suspended during an investigation in alleged wrong doing on their part. No details available.

dN

Here is the 23 player New Zealand team:

G:

James Bannatyne - Team Wellington

Glen Moss - Melbourne Victory

Mark Paston - Wellington Phoenix

D:

Andy Boyens - New York Red Bulls

Tony Lochhead - Wellington Phoenix

David Mulligan - unattached

Ryan Nelsen - Blackburn Rovers

Winston Reid - FC Midtjylland

Ben Sigmund - Wellington Phoenix

Tommy Smith - Ipswich

Ivan Vicelich - Auckland City

M:

Andy Barron - Team Wellington

Leo Bertos - Wellington Phoenix

Jeremy Brockie - Newcastle Jets

Tim Brown - Wellington Phoenix

Aaron Clapham - Canterbury United

Jeremy Christie - FC Tampa Bay

Simon Elliott - unattached

Michael McGlinchey - Motherwell

F:

Rory Fallon - Plymouth Argyle

Chris Killen - Middlesbrough

Shane Smeltz - Gold Coast United

Chris Wood - West Bromwich Albion

GAZA WORLD CUP

Its the Gaza World Cup, read all about it.

Quarterfinals

-Sat May 8

Q1 - Russia 2-1 Ireland

Q2 - France 3-1 Serbia

-Sun May 9

Q3 - Italy 4-4 Germany - Italy adv in PKS

Q4 - Jordan ?-? Egypt - Score unknown, but Jordan adv

Semifinals

-Wed May 12

Russia v France

Italy v Jordan

Final

-Sat May 15

Semifinal Winners

ENDERS

In pro basketball this past weekend Barcelona beat Olympiakos 86-68 to win the European Championship.
