STARTERS

Just 3 days ago I was singing a beautiful song about how great the satellite company DirectTV was, carrying all 16 Champions League games this week LIVE. Well I set my DVR and headed off to work yesterday excited to get back home and watch Inter Milan face Barcelona. When I finally settled in and cranked up the TV set what did I get? Children's cartoons. 2 1/2 hours worth. Where was my game. Only the satellite waves know. Boo creepy DirectTV, you owe me one!

dN

Huge news of the day in American soccer is that the Columbus Crew went down to Costa Rica last night and beat Saprissa 0-1. That is the very first time an American team from the league or the national team has pulled this one off! (And it's a hell of a lot better than their 5-0 pasting at the hands of Cruz Azul in Mexico City a few weeks back.)

dN

Mike Petke, centerback for the New York Red Bulls, uses his column at ESPN Soccernet to Remember 9/11.

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Matchday 1

-Tue Sep 15

Juventus 1-1 Bordeaux - Juv goal by Vincenzo Iaquinta. Bor goal by Jaroslav Plasil.

Maccabi Haifa 0-3 Bayern Munchen - BM goals by Daniel Van Buyten & Thomas Muller(2).

Wolfsburg 3-1 CSKA Moskva - Wol goals all by Grafite. CM goal by Alan Dzagoev.

Besiktas 0-1 Manchester United - MU goal by Paul Scholes.

Zurich 2-5 Real Madrid - Zur goals by Xavier Margairaz(PK), Silvan Aegerter. RM goals by Cristiano Ronaldo(2), Raul Gonzalez, Gonzalo Higuain & Guti.

Marseille 1-2 Milan - Mar goal by Gabriel Heinze. Mil goals both by Pippo Inzaghi.

Chelsea 1-0 Porto - Che goal by Nicolas Anelka.

Atletico Madrid 0-0 APOEL

-Wed Sep 16

Liverpool 1-0 Debreceni - Liv goal by Dirk Kuyt.

Lyon 1-0 Fiorentina - Lyo goal by Miralem Pjanic.

Inter 0-0 Barcelona

Dynamo Kyiv 3-1 Rubin Kazan - DK goals by Ayila Yussuf, Gerson Magrao & Oleh Gusev. RK goal by Alejandro Dominguez.

Stuttgart 1-1 Rangers - Stu goal by Pavel Pogrebnyak. Ran goal by Madjid Bougherra.

Sevilla 2-0 Unirea Urziceni - Sev goals by Luis Fabiano & Renato.

Olympiacos 1-0 AZ Alkmaar - Oly goal by Vassilis Torosidis.

Standard Liege 2-3 Arsenal - SL goals by Eliaquim Mangala & Milan Jovanovic(PK). Ars goals by Nicklas Bendtner, Thomas Vermaelen & Eduardo.

dN

Rob Hughes of the International Herald Tribune reviews the 2nd night of Matchday 1, and focuses on the huge match of the round where entertainment never materialized.

CONCACAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

Group Stage

Matchday 3

Matches & Scores:

-Tue Sep 15

Metapan 0-1 Arabe Unido - AU goal by Orlando Rodriguez.

San Juan Jabloteh 0-1 DC United - DCU goals by Christian Gomez(PK).

Puerto Rico Islanders 3-3 Cruz Azul - PRI goals by Cristian Arrietz, Fabrice Noel & Nicholas Addlery. CA goals by Pablo Zeballos(2) & Alejandro Vela.

-Wed Sep 16

W Connection 2-2 UNAM Pumas - WC goals by Jonathan Farias & Renato Pereira. UP goals by Victor Rosales & Paco Palencia.

Pachuca 2-0 Houston Dynamo - Pac goals by Edgar Benitez & Paul Nicholas Aguilar.

Saprissa 0-1 Columbus Crew - CC goal by Eddie Gaven.

-Thu Sep 17

Toluca v Marathon

Comunicaciones v Real Espana

dN

Standings (with Games Played):

Group A

7 Arabe Unido(3 GP)

6 Pachuca(3 GP)

4 Houston Dynamo(3 GP)

0 Metapan(3 GP)

Group B

6 Marathon(2 GP)

6 Toluca(2 GP)

3 DC United(3 GP)

0 San Juan Jabloteh(3 GP)

Group C

7 Cruz Azul(3 GP)

6 Columbus Crew(3 GP)

3 Saprissa(3 GP)

1 Puerto Rico Islanders(3 GP)

Group D

7 UNAM Pumas(3 GP)

3 Comunicaciones(2 GP)

3 Real Espana(2 GP)

1 W Connection(3 GP)

MLS

Week 27

Matches & Scores

-Fri Sep 18

New York Red Bulls v New England Revolution - 6:30pm Central on Direct Kick

San Jose Earthquakes v Colorado Rapids - 10pm Central on ESPN2 & ESPN Deportes

-Sat Sep 19

Seattle Sounders FC v Chivas USA - 2pm Central on FSC & FSE

Kansas City Wizards v FC Dallas - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Houston Dynamo v Real Salt Lake - 7:30pm Central on Direct Kick

Los Angeles Galaxy v Toronto FC - 9:30pm Central on Direct Kick

-Sun Sep 20

Chicago Fire v Columbus Crew - 2pm Central on Telefutura

dN

Ridge Mahoney of Soccer America talks to MLS pres Mark Abbott about the leagues planned break during the Group Stage of the World Cup. I have to say that this does only part of the job in fixing the problem in which teams will be without their top players. The several weeks before the group stage begins will see all those players gone from their clubs to prepare for the tournament, and then any countries that advance will have their players gone from the clubs as well. So yes it is one step, but it is still quite half-assed.

dN

Greg Seltzer of Soccer 365 talks to Heath Pearce about his new home in Dallas.

dN

Soccer 365 also gives us their list of the most underpaid players in the league. Criminally underpaid if you ask me.

dN

Steve Davis at ESPN Soccernet on the brutally tight race for the 8 playoff spots.

dN

The Philadelphia Daily News reports on the news that the Union may not have their new stadium ready for their first home game next season. Duh. Who didn't see this coming a year ago when construction hadn't started yet? Is there even any superstructure yet?? Look at the New York stadium by comparison that will also open next season. Bad news.

dN

The Philadelphia Inquirer with an article on the Union's building of their youth program.

dN

Michael Lewis of Big Apple Soccer talks to New York youngster Giorgi Chirgadze who just became the teams first senior signing from their development academy.

dN

FC Dallas becomes the latest team in the league to sign a player from the development academy to a senior roster contract. Hotshot Bryan Leyva was being chased by teams all over the globe and FCD was able to hang on to him. Great move.

dN

Mark Young at MLSnet with this weeks news roundup of former MLS folks.

dN

Andrew Dixon at the US National Players Assoc looks at the roster moves made by teams at the last minute.

dN

Brian Strauss of Fanhouse talks to Chicago's Cuauhtemoc Blanco about next season. Blanco wants to play in Chicago!

dN

One other late deadline day signing to announce: Chicago has signed 21 year old fullback David Myrie from Costa Rican club Alajuelense.

-The teams blog En Fuego does a Q & A with him.

MLS NEWCOMER OF THE YEAR

Here are the players (listed alphabetically) that I think are the top candidates for a pretty decent post season award, as awards go. (NOTE: this is a pared down version of my original list(

Osvaldo Alonso - Seattle

Eric Brunner - Columbus

Jhon Kennedy Hurtado - Seattle

Kasey Keller - Seattle

Freddie Ljungberg - Seattle

Fredy Montero - Seattle

Emmanuel Osei - New England

It looks more than likely that the winner will be a player from Seattle.

EXHIBITION IN THE USA

Big exhibition game last night in Kansas City - celebrating Mexican Independence Day:

-Wed Sep 16

America 1-2 Guadalajara Chivas - Amer goal by Daniel Marquez. Guad goals by Fernando Lopez(OG) & Omar Arellano.

Venue: Arrowhead Stadium - Kansas City MO

Attendance: 26,119

SOCCER IN AMERICA

Kristian Dyer of ESPN Soccernet does a Q & A with the fabled Peter Wilt. Yes, he would like to be back in MLS one day. And I hope it is sooner rather than later.

USA U20 TEAM @ U20 WORLD CUP

Greg Seltzer of Soccer365 talks to one of the teams best known players Jared Jeffrey from Club Brugge in Belgium.

dN

Brent Latham of Yanks Abroad talks to USA coach Thomas Rongen about the difficulties in choosing players from college, MLS and overseas for this team.

dN

YA also talks to 2 of the college based players on the squad - Michael Stephens & Aaron Maund.

dN

The first USA group stage game is Sat Sep 26 against Germany.

TEAM USA

Jeff Carlisle at ESPN Soccernet with an article on the struggle to qualify for the World Cup - which does not surprise any of the players on the team.

CONCACAF WORLD CUP QUALIFYING

Costa Rica has fired coach Rodrigo Kenton after losing 3 World Cup qualifying matches in a row. He has been replaced by Brazilian Rene Simoes (who led Jamaica to their only WC appearance.) They currently sit in 4th place, which is the position that must face the South American 5th place finisher in a home and away series for a spot in the big tournament. Their final 2 games are at home against Trinidad & Tobago on Oct 10 and at the USA on Oct 14.

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

The 1st of 6 Group Stage games are today.

dN

Americans in Action:

-Clint Dempsey - CSKA Sofia v Fulham

-Tim Howard - Everton v AEK Athens

dN

All the matches and results.

WORLD CUP BIDS FOR 2018/22

World Football Insider reports that Australia could be in financial trouble with their bid to host a World Cup.
