It's Day 229 of 2017.

My new column for 1500ESPN - The New Loons are here! Rounding up and rating the newest members of Minnesota United.

dN

Zinedine Zidane became manager of Real Madrid on Jan 4 2016. Since then the team has lost 7 games. SEVEN. In over a year and a half. Yeah. They and he are pretty decent.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

The talented Seattle Sounders added reinforcements during the international transfer window. By Geoff Baker for the Seattle Times.

Sounders have won 5 and tied 1 in their last 6 games.

In that run of games they have scored 15 and allowed 4, but have allowed ZERO in their last 4 games.

Loons go to Seattle looking for redemption of embarrassing loss at home 2 weeks ago. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Schedule:

-Sun Aug 20

Seattle v Minnesota - 8:30pm CT on FS1

dN

MLS

The league announced that teams would be allowed a 4th substitute in playoff games that go to Extra Added Time.

Uh oh. Is there smoldering in the dumpster out back of the Chicago Fire locker room? They have lost four of their last five now. Last night they got seriously outplayed by Montreal, who are not a great team. If Chicago wants to be upper echelon they have about 10 games to get it straight. Or have other teams figured them out?

Ignaccio Piatti is really good, in case you forgot.

Toronto is the blue print that the Fire need to follow in building their organization and team. By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

Colorado fired head coach Pablo Mastroeni - he probably got the short shrift. By Ridge Mahoney for Soccer America.

Then the Rapids released this statement about the future direction of their club in the local newspaper. written by Padraig Smith (Sporting Director + General Manager) and Wayne Brant (Chief Business Officer) From the Denver Post.

Its all a bunch of hot air until they concretely define what they are doing, which this piece, despite all their talk of transparency, does not.

The fake turf in Atlanta's new stadium is not ideal. By Doug Roberson for the Atlanta Journal Constitution.

The same brand of the fake shit is used in Portland and Seattle.

Week 24 Schedule:

(11 games)

-Wed Aug 16

Montreal 3-0 Chicago

-Fri Aug 18

Portland v New York RB

-Sat Aug 19

Montreal v Salt Lake

Orlando v Columbus

Chicago v Toronto

KC v v Dallas

Colorado v DC

Vancouver v Houston

San Jose v Philadelphia

-Sun Aug 20

New York City v New England

Seattle v Minnesota

dN

Turner networks acquired the rights to broadcast UEFA Champions League and Europa League in the United States beginning next year for the 2018/19 season.

In a radical move most of the games will be shown on a new pay streaming system, with about 20% of games on TBS, TNT and TruTV.

Another blow to Fox Sports - losing a huge component of their soccer package.

dN

Precip: du Nord Music Mix Vol 135 (download + extract)

dN

USMNT

DeAndre Yedlin began training again with Newcastle this week. Lets hope he has recovered from the ankle injury. From Brian Sciaretta on Twitter.

dN

Juventus's young star-in-the-making Paulo Dybala is looking to plant his flag at the top of the mountain this season. By Rory Smith for the New York Times.

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
