STARTERS

Dan Califf appears to be headed to Philadelphia. See the MLS Rumors section below for the full story from Greg Seltzer.

dN

Mexican Liguilla moves into the Semifinals starting tonight. See the Mexico section below for all the details.

dN

FIFA announced that nothing will change with the way referee's work for next summers World Cup.

dN

Martin Vasquez has officially been named head coach of Chivas USA

WORLD CUP 2010 DRAW

Jeff Carlisle of ESPN Soccernet on what the USA can hope to get in the group stage draw.

MLS

Now here is a step in the right direction: No Fan Alone has announced that the hardcore supporters of the Colorado Rapids are back on the upswing after some "rocky" times dealing with the club, and will have their own true supporters section in the stadium (in the north end where the players enter the field) upon which to build a more passionate scenario. (thanks to TJ for sending the link)

dN

The National Post writes about Toronto's Amado Guevara getting unsuspectingly caught up in the Honduran presidential mess.

dN

Jay Heaps of the New England Revolution stepped up to a microphone today and told us his playing days were over. The Rev's website has video of the event.

-Some of us will miss Heaps more than others will. Right DC fans?

-And did you know that he played basketball at Duke University?

MLS RUMORS

Greg Seltzer at Soccer365 reports that Dan Califf has gotten out of his contract a Midtjylland and will be signing with the Philadelphia Union.

MLS COACHES MERRY-GO-ROUND

With Martin Vasquez getting the Chivas USA job, their are now 3 jobs open - Chicago, DC, New York.

USL-1/NASL MESS

Brian Quarstad of Inside Minnesota Soccer looks for a positive in the chaos that is the 2nd level of soccer today.

AMERICANS IN EUROPE

It's funny, I have been checking the Schalke website everyday for weeks looking for any word on the health of Jermaine Jones to no avail. Then when I checked this morning an update was their top story, and I got all crazy giddy. What weird things this game does to me.

-The official Schalke website reports that Jones has finally returned to practice after being out since mid-Summer with a hairline fracture in his lower left leg that required 2 surgeries to repair.

dN

Game Action: (only those that played are listed)

ENGLAND - League Cup

Brad Guzan - Aston Villa - went the full 90 as they won 4-2 at home over Portsmouth, and now advance to the Semifinals.

ENGLAND - League One

Mike Grella - Leeds - came on as a sub in teh 86th minute and they won on the road 0-2 at Oldham Athletic.

dN

Coming Up:

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

-Wed Dec 2

Dominic Cervi - Celtic - v Hapoel Tel-Aviv

Tim Howard - Everton - at AEK Athens

-Thu Dec 3

Bryan Arguez - Hertha Berlin - at Ventspils

Clint Dempsey - Fulham - v CSKA Sofia

Eddie Johnson - Fulham - v CSKA Sofia

MEXICO

Primera Division Liguilla

All playoff rounds are 2 Legs.

Semifinal Matches & Scores:

1st Leg

-Wed Dec 2

Morelia(3) v Cruz Azul(2)

-Thu Dec 3

Monterrey(5) v Toluca(1)

2nd Leg

-Sat Dec 5

Cruz Azul(2) v Morelia(3)

-Sun Dec 6

Toluca(1) v Monterrey(5)

UEFA EUROPA LEAGUE

Matchday 5 is being played this week on Wed Dec 2 & Thu Dec 3. Here are those matches & scores.

ALL AROUND THE WORLD

FIFA.com gives us a pretty cool statistical wrap up from the past week on leagues all around the world. Cool feature.
