Niklas Chuch is an Englishman, and an old friend of the du Nord family, who gives us a perspective on how things have gotten to such a crazy financial state in the world of English football.

It is insane for sure.

I think Pompey were coughing something like 80% of monthly earnings on players wages. But the money is a result I think of the change in the European cup competitions. This year Liverpool were one goal away from a European final, and how did they get in that competition? By LOSING in another European Cup competition. That is just nonsense.

The premier European cup competition is named the Champions League when it is pretty much anything but. It has gone from a glorious wonderful competition to a competition of utter stupidity. It has clearly been tailored for a world wide TV audience. And as that it works very well. It reminds me of how the Harlem Globetrotters were viewed in England in the 70’s & 80’s long before Hip Hop arrived and clued everyone up to proper NBA basketball. It looks great on TV, Inter versus Barcelona or Real against Liverpool. But it is bogus and fake. It is not a proper competition any longer. Most of these teams are not champions. And the teams are seeded, designed to keep certain nations teams from the upper places of their domestic league away from each other till late in the competition. Nonetheless the TV rights earns zillions and zillions of euros and the clubs have gotten bloated, the English more than any other nation it seems to me.

And on top of this in England another whole set of stupidity was introduced via the creation of the Premier League and its attendant other divisions.** All of this topped off with a layer of uber greedy bad capitalism via the floating of football clubs on the stock market. For example Man United a club in the financial black, handsomely in the black in fact, bought by someone who borrowed over 60% of the money to finalize the deal. Once bought the debt incurred in the purchase is given to the club plunging them into huge debt. And all of this facilitated because the club got greedy in the first place and turned a football club into a bloody public limited company quoted on the stock exchange. It is pretty depressing to see this Bruce.

We seem to have destroyed the soul of the game. I mean, you went with me to watch a team playing in Division One but that league is in fact the third tier professional league in this country. How the hell can it be called League One? I suspect the League Authorities thought by not calling it League Division One but League One it somehow made it ok…..

I love the game but I hate what it has become. I saw a photograph today of spurs players with champagne celebrating after their win over Man City because they have come FOURTH in the bloody league. They have also of course qualified for the so called Champions League. It seems to me that when players celebrate coming third and fourth in a league competition you gotta ask yourself what has gone wrong.

Bit of a rant there it seems. But it seems to me that we have lost something of the purity of the game and of the European cup competitions. Once the competition was comprised of the champions of each European domestic league, then all names thrown into a bag and a draw made. The luckier ones played the champs of Malta. If you were really unlucky you played the champions of Italy. And the really unlucky ones got a trip to some weird eastern block team. What we have now is a fake, an enjoyable fake for sure but a fake nonetheless, in same way as the Harlem Globetrotters are/were. You know as well as I do that given a choice between watching the Bulls in their prime or the Harlem Globetrotters you (&I) would go the Chicago way each and every time. What the competition is now is the same as the ball games played by the Globetrotters and what we once had as a competition was the equivalent of games as played by the Bulls.

We have lost something for sure.

**Things started to happen in 1992. The teams in the 1st division, which had been run by the Football League since 1888, left to form the Premier League. But the key is that about three years prior to that the Football League had eventually decided to allow live coverage of games. It had been requested for many years but always declined on the basis that showing live football would discourage people from attending games. This is why even now the Saturday 3:00pm games are not live in the UK [at least legally] unlike in say Germany and why we have these daft games kicking off at 12:30 or 5:30 pm so the TV firms can show live Premier football on a Saturday. At first when it went live the coverage was on the BBC and free to everyone. But the size of the audience soon alerted people in the game to the money available in showing this stuff via a pay channel like Sky. Once this was grasped the move to create the Premier League happened.

The creation of the Championship [old 2nd division] and these daft divisions League One [old div 3] and League Two [old div 4] were really undertaken as the Premier League grew in size dwarfing everything else. So the Football League has tried, not unreasonably, to jazz up the lower divisions.
