It's Day 209 of 2017.

Thursday recap:

Jonathan Dos Santos (younger brother of Giovanni) has signed with LA Galaxy

Curt Onalfo fired as head coach of LA Galaxy

Sigi Schmid rehired as head coach of LA Galaxy

-What comes next for the stumbling Galaxy? By Matt Pentz for ESPNFC.

Bob Bradley hired as head coach of LAFC

-Interview with Bob Bradley. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Me and Bob exchange pleasant emails

All eyes are on the new Battle for LA. By Scott French for Four Four Two.

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

A big big game on Satuday for MNUFC. If any game this season can be called "must win" its this one. The opponent DC United is the one team in the whole league that is absolutely worse than MN. The Loons must beat them if they want to push forward and have a productive 2nd half to the season, which has gotten off to a bad start.

Francisco Calvo is back baby! And ready to roll. By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune.

Jermaine Taylor had a great Gold Cup for Jamaica, and wants more minutes with the Loons. By Ryan.

A match preview from Washington and a DCU perspective. By Steven Goff for the Washington Post.

Loons have released high paid goalkeeper John Alvbage. They had a chance to re-sign his loan deal for another year, but declined to do so. Alvbage is happy to have had the chance. By Ryan.

-I will say this, his Instagram has been a joy to follow, and he seems like a really great, smart, fun loving guy. Too bad it didn't work out.

Current form for MN:

Last place in the Western Conference

Lost 3 and tied 2 in last 5 games

Won 1, lost 2 and tied 2 in last 5 homes games

Last win was on Jun 21 when they beat Portland 3-2 at home

0 goals scored in last 3 games

4 goals allowed in last 3 games

Christian Ramirez is top goal scorer with 10

Team has scored just 25 goals this season

Team has allowed 45 goals this season

Current form for DC:

Last place in the Eastern Conference

Lost 5 in a row

Lost 6 in a row on the road

Last win was on Jun 21 when they beat Atlanta 2-1 at home

6 goals scored in last 3 games

11 goals allowed in last 3 games

Luciano Acosta is top goal scorer with 4

Team has scored 18 goals this season

Team has allowed 38 goals this season

Stadium Cam

Schedule:

-Sat Jul 29

Minnesota v DC - 7pm CT on My29

dN

Navel: du Nord Music Mix Vol 131 (download + extract)

dN

MLS

Six very big games this weekend. All marked below as "BIG."

-This is as good a weekend for MLS games as I have seen in a long time.

Week 21 schedule:

(12 games)

-Wed Jul 26

Philadelphia 3-0 Columbus

-Sat Jul 29

BIG Atlanta v Orlando - 3:30pm CT on FOX

New England v Philadelphia

New York Red Bulls v Montreal

BIG Dallas v Vancouver

BIG Houston v Portland

BIG Kansas City v Chicago

Minnesota v DC

Salt Lake v Columbus

San Jose v Colorado

BIG LA v Seattle - 9:00pm CT on ESPN

-Sun Jul 30

BIG Toronto v New York City - 1:00pm CT on ESPN

dN

An update on Matheus Silva - the Reno 1860 player who drown on the 4th of July, was resuscitated and spent 2 days in a coma. He has trained with the team and wants to play! Doctors aren't sure though. By Elliot Almond for the San Jose Mercury News.

dN

USMNT

The next step is even bigger - 4 World Cup qualifiers. By Jeff Carlisle for ESPNFC.

Bruce Arena looks forward. By Michael Lewis for Front Row Soccer.

dN

LIGA MX

Week 2 Schedule:

-Fri Jul 28

Puebla v Morelia

Atlas v Pumas

-Sat Jul 29

Queretaro v Lobos BUAP

Cruz Azul v Guadalajara

Monterrey v Veracruz

Pachuca v America

Necaxa v Tijuana

-Sun Jul 30

Toluca v Leon

Santos Laguna v Tigres

dN

FIFA is a joke. Example No. 2037.

dN

Several months ago stories exploded across England of sexual abuse of young football players going back decades, and involving hundreds of people. But the story has faded. Where do things stand? by Matt Dickinson for The Times of London.

dN

All of my columns for 1500ESPN.

The Bird Is The Word
