-FROM US SOCCER: SEATTLE (July 9, 2005) - U.S. forward Conor Casey has been diagnosed with a torn ACL and a Grade 2 sprain of the MCL in his right knee after an MRI examination confirmed the injury. Casey suffered the injury in the second half of the USA's 4-1 win against Cuba on July 7 in the opening match of the 2005 Gold Cup. He was replaced by Landon Donovan in the 66th minute. Casey will remain in the United States to await surgery, which is expected to be scheduled for next week.

-Jonathan Spector is gonna play for Charlton this year on a loan deal from Man U. I am sure that if he does great he will return to his home side as a full time starter, and if he flounders he will be cut loose. Go Jonny Go!

-USA 2-0 over Canada. They played decent, for most of the game. John O'Brien didnt show much in his return to the starting XI. I can't remember too much else about the match except that Donovan and Beasley go together like Magic and Kareem. The most interesting aspect of the game was that a completely different squad took the field from last Thursdays match against Cuba, and there's yet another 8-10 guys out there that were not even included on the Gold Cup roster that could easily be there. What a great thing to think about. The depth of USA soccer is now for real.

-Next up for Team USA is Costa Rica on Tuesday evening from Boston. Both teams have 6 points from the first two matches.

-In other Gold Cup happenings: Mexico found a way to lose to South Africa 2-1 last Friday night, then returned Sunday to demolish Guatemala 4-0. Guatemala may have some excellent offensive players like Carlos Ruiz and Pando Ramirez, but they have absolutely no defense at all. Sad. Jamaica beat Guatemala 4-3 last Friday night and then drew with South Africa 3-3 on Sunday. Panama and Trinidad drew 2-2, and Honduras knocked Columbia down another peg 2-1 (Columbia has lost both matches now).

The game schedule for the next two days looks like this:

July 12

USA v Costa Rica

Canada v Cuba

Colombia v Trinidad

Honduras v Panama

July 13

Guatemala v South Africa

Mexico v Jamaica

-Corinthians ran past rival Palmeiras 3-1 in the Brazilian championship on Sunday in Sao Paolo at Morumbi! Palm actually scored first on a goal by Leonardo Silva early in the second half, but then Gustavo Nery tied it up and sub Rosinei scored two for the big Corin win!

-The first leg of qualifying rounds for the next UEFA Champions League kickoff tomorrow and Wednesday. Here's the matches:

12th

Lev. Tallinn v Dinamo Tbilisi

Neftchi v Hafnarfjördur

Dinamo Minsk v Anorthosis

Kairat Almaty v Artmedia

Rabotnicki v Skonto

Sliema v Sheriff

13th

Haka v Pyunik

HB v Kaunas

Glentoran v Shelbourne

Dudelange v Zrinjski

Liverpool v TNS

Gorica v Tirana
