It's Day 271 of 2016.

Happy Birthday to Bill Groundhog Day Ghostbustin' Ass Murray.

dN

Oof! England coach Sam Alardyce was set up by some bored "journalists" and said some really stupid shit and HAS NOW RESIGNED. He lasted 2 months and coached 1 game. What a fucked up football world the English live in.

The Telegraph went undercover to entrap him and write this story.

dN

Every time 2 or more Minnesota United fans come together the question is always raised: "Who from the current MNUFC roster could/will make the MLS club?" And yesterday that same question was asked in the comments section of this blog by "Interested Sounders Fan."

So here we go, this is my list of players on the current roster who I think will get a shot:

Jack Blake

Jeb Brovsky

Danny Cruz

Justin Davis

Ibson

Ismaila Jome

Greg Jordan

Brent Kallman

Lance Laing

Sammy Ndjock

Stefano Pinho

Christian Ramirez

Ben Speas

Kevin Venegas

Jamie Watson

The impossible to answer question is, "Who will make it?" I think it could be as high as 12 and as low as 5.

My Credo: Minnesota MUST focus on building their defense first and foremost if they want any chance of success to start in MLS.

dN

MU centerback Damien Lowe has been called up to the Jamaican National Team for a match on Wed Oct 5 v Suriname in a Caribbean Cup qualifier.

dN

Minn United owner Bill McGuire spoke to St Paul residents today - Fred Melo of the St Paul Pioneer Press live Tweeted the talk. Lots of interesting little facts and ideas.

dN

His Name is Alive

Patterns of Light

11.11.16 pic.twitter.com/EhlQcFR2yN

— xoxo war (@hisnameisalive) September 27, 2016

dN

Allie Long of Portland Thorns named NWSL Player Of The Week.

Mauro Manotas of Houston Dynamo named MLS Player Of The Week.

Trevin Caesar of Orange County Blues named USL Player Of The Week.

dN

By popular demand:

The Miguel Herrera + Tijuana Tracker:

Standings - 1st Place, 1 point lead

Up Next - Fri Sep 30 v Atlas

dN

NASL Mid-Week 24 Schedule:

-Wed Sep 28

Jacksonville v Edmonton

Carolina v New York

Puerto Rico v Ft Lauderdale

Miami v Ottawa

dN

CONCACAF Champions League Matchday 5:

Red Bulls can advance tonight, and all they need to do is draw on the road.

Its a MUST win for Portland tonight, a draw or loss will hand the group to Saprissa.

-Tue Sep 27

Antigua GFC v New York Red Bulls

Dragon v Portland Timbers

-Wed Sep 28

Plaza Amador v Tigres UANL

Dallas v Suchitepequez

Vancouver Whitecaps v Central

Monterrey v Don Bosco

-Thu Sep 29

Police United v Olimpia

Honduras Progreso v W Connection

dN

UEFA Champions League - Big Games of Matchday 2:

-Tue Sep 27

Dortmund v Real Madrid

Dinamo Zagreb v Juventus

-Wed Sep 18

Ludogorets v PSG

Arsenal v Basel

Gladbach v Barca

Celtic v Man City

Atleti v Bayern

dN

Four midweek games in MLS Week 30:

(all have playoff implications)

-Wed Sep 28

Montreal v San Jose

DC v Columbus

Toronto v Orlando

Seattle v Chicago

dN

Atlanta United has hired Tata Martino as their first head coach. He formerly coached Barcelona and Argentina, the last 2 of his 11 head coaching jobs prior to Atlanta.

How did AU get their man hired? Club pres Darren Eales lays it all out for us. By Jeff Carlisle of ESPNFC.

The Bird Is The Word
