From The Guardian's review of Frank Lampard's new book Totally Frank: Consider Lampard's reflections after a fortnight spent on Roman Abramovich's yacht. "I suppose people imagine that as a Premiership footballer, my life is quite special. I would agree, but those two weeks opened my eyes to another world." Ah, a millionaire yearning to be a billionaire ... is there anything more charmless?

~ ~ ~ ~

The Salt Lake Tribune broke the news that Eddie Pope will add his name to the growing list of USA players retiring from International play. Even though he was injured way too often, I have always loved this guys play.

-In addition to that announcement, Pope will also join what is quickly becoming another line, the one of players who will not be on the MLS All Star team v Chelsea on Saturday due to injury. (More on that game below.)

-US Soccer has a podcast of Eddie's official retirement announcement.

~ ~ ~ ~

Nearly criminally, Terry Cooke was again passed over for the All Star team as yes another DC United player, Fecundo Erpen was picked to replace Popey on the team.

-Juan Pablo García, midfielder for Chivas USA was also named to the All-Star team, but like his teammate Ante Razov will not play due to a his team having a game in LA the following day (which I have said many times before is a bad joke).

~ ~ ~ ~

Due to family health and personal reasons related to the current war and further political turmoil in his homeland, Colorado has agreed to sell midfielder, and huge du Nord favorite, Dedi Ben-Dayan to Israeli team Maccabi Netanya. Damn! I miss him already.

~ ~ ~ ~

Big Apple Soccer is reporting that Youri Djorkaeff and new Red Bulls coach Bruce Arena will have a sit down meeting to determine the players future with the team, but it will not happen before Arena officially take the team reigns from ABMOD on Aug 7.

~ ~ ~ ~

Jonathan Bornstein of Chivas USA was named MLS's July Player of the Month. He had a truly great month scoring 3 goals and playing his ass off wherever they put him on the field. He literally started at forward, left mid, and left back. Easily the current leader for Rookie Of The Year honors.

~ ~ ~ ~

US Soccer has a truly great video of FC Roma Dallas's mythical run in the open cup, and their game against LA on Tuesday night. Really well done! The ending has a rousing tribute to Roma by the LA Riot Squad! You must watch this.

~ ~ ~ ~

US Open Cup 4th Round scores:

DC United 2-1 Columbus

Los Angeles 2-0 Roma Dallas

Wilmington 1-2 New York - Wilmington tied the game in the 85th minute, only to see the Red Bulls win it a minute later! Kaboom. Match report from the Wilmington Star News.

Chicago v Kansas City - game postponed due to heavy rain and lightning - new date will be announced soon

Rochester 0-0 New England - NE win 5-4 on PK's - Rochester keeper Scott Vallow made 8 big saves (and 2 more during the shootout) to keep his team in it till the end. Match report from the Rochester Democrat And Chronicle.

Salt Lake 0-1 Colorado - Jacob Peterson with the games only goal. Match report from the Salt Lake Tribune.

Houston 4-2 Carolina - Alejandro Moreno scored 2 for the winners. Match report by Bernardo Fallas for the Houston Chronicle.

Charleston 3-3 Dallas - Dallas win 5-3 on PK's away from home - Sounds like it was a wild one with Dallas down to 10 men and both teams scoring in over-time. Kenny Cooper bagged all 3 for Dallas. (Clarence "Bad Luck Charm" Goodson was the player ejected for Dallas). Match report from the Charleston Post And Courier.

~ ~ ~ ~

The Copa Libertadores second leg semi finals (with first leg scores included)-

Wednesday:

Sao Paulo 3-0 Guadalajara Chivas (1-0) - Sao Paulo roll to a 4-0 aggregate win over the Goats. Match report from Soccernet.

Thursday:

Internacional v Libertad (0-0) - see it on TV live at 7:30pm central time on Fox Sports en Espanol.

-The final will be played starting next Wednesday, Aug 9.

~ ~ ~ ~

Milk Cup

USA 2-2 Denmark - after leading 2-0 very early, the US U20 team let Denmark back into the match, settling for a draw. Luckily the one point still advances them to the final against Paraguay (who beat the hosts Northern Ireland 3-1) on Friday, to defend their title. Preston Zimmerman & Robbie Roger scored the goals for the USA boys.Match report from US Soccer.

-You will be able to see the Championship match live on the internet at 2pm central time via the BBC.

-USA defender Julian Valentin has been keeping a diary of the trip. (updated thanks to Mason16)

~ ~ ~ ~

UEFA Champions League Second Qualifying Round second leg matches (1st leg scores included)-

B36 0-5 Fenerbahce - Fener win 9-0 on agg

Dinamo Zagreb 5-2 Ekranas - Zabreg win 9-3 on agg

Spartak Moskva 0-0 Sheriff - after drawing 1-1 on agg, Spartak win on the away goal rule.

Rabotnicki 4-1 Debrecen - Rabot win 5-1 on agg

Steaua 3-0 Gorica - Steaua win 5-0 on agg

MyPa 2-2 Kobenhavn - Kobe win 4-2 on agg

Valerenga 2-2 Mlada Boleslav - Mlada win 5-3 on agg

Ruzomberok 3-1 Djurgarden - Ruzom win 3-2 on agg

Legia 2-0 Hafnarfjordur - Legia win 3-0 on agg

Red Bull Salzburg 2-0 Zurich - Salz win 3-2 on agg

Siroki Brijeg 0-0 Hearts - Hearts win 3-0 on agg

Dynamo Kyiv 4-0 Metalurgs - DK win 8-1 on agg

Crvena Zvezda 3-0 Cork -the team also known as Red Star Belgrade win 4-0 on agg

Sioni 0-2 Levski - Levski win 4-0 on agg

-The Third Qualifying Round matches will take place Aug 8/9 and Aug 22/23, see the draw here, to be followed by the group stages launching in mid-September.

~ ~ ~ ~

German League Cup - The top 6 teams from last seasons Bundesliga face off in this preseason tournament. No. 1 & 2 got a buy in the first round that saw 3 v 6 and 4 v 5, with those winners taking on the top two. Here are the semifinal results:

Werder Bremen 2-1 Hamburg

Bayern Munich 0-0 Schalke - Bayern wins 4-1 on pk's

-The final, Bayern Munich v Werder Bremen, will be played in Leipzig this Saturday, Aug 5 at 11am central. See it live on GolTV.

~ ~ ~ ~

Don't forget: MLS All Stars v Chelsea on Saturday from Chicago's Bridgeview Stadium. See it on ESPN TV at 5:30pm central time. You can also hear it on the radio in Chicago at WMVP1000am or online at ESPNRadio1000.com

-Andrea Canales talks to Chelsea bossman Morinho for Soccernet.

-Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated chats with Chelsea Cosmos midfielder Frank Lampard.

-Lamps, Snoop, and Drog (thanks James)

-Frank Dell'apa previews Chelsea's team for the match, at Soccernet too.

-Canada.com talks to Houston & Canuck midfield star Dwayne DeRosario about taking on the Blueboys of London.

~ ~ ~ ~

And on Sunday in LA it's a double header with Chivas USA v New England and Guadalajara Chivas v Barcelona at the Coliseum. See the first game live at 6pm central on Direct Kick and HDNet, with the second game at 8:30pm live on Fox Soccer Channel

~ ~ ~ ~

Glenn Davis of the Houston Chronicle previews Barcelona's arrival for a match in his town on Aug 9 v America.

~ ~ ~ ~

Rochester still sneaking around looking at Salt Lake. Would they buy 'em and move 'em?

~ ~ ~ ~

The Soccer Times with a good Americans-In-Europe-(but almost entirely England)-Preseason roundup.
