-Great article at MLSnet about our Thunder and their US Open Cup match tomorrow night in KC: K.C. will not fear, or overlook, Thunder

For some reason it just feels like the planets are aligning again for our squad. Over 40 of us are headed south tomorrow morning on a chartered coach and plan to give KC a serious earful. I really can't wait.

Here are the other US Open Cup matches for tomorrow night:

Rochester v Chicago

DC United v FC Dallas

Kansas City v Minnesota

San Jose v Los Angeles

-If our team pulls off yet another miracle tonite then the semifinal would look like this (Game to be played on Wed Sept 14.): San Jose at KC/MN winner -or- KC/MN Winner at Los Angeles

-Today is Real Madrid v MLS Select for the Trofeo Santiago Bernabeu trophy. This should be a fun one to watch. The english speaking side of the Real Madrid website has no mention of the match even happening, but the spanish speaking page has tons of articles and pictures. Too bad I am such a boar and can't read any of them. Here is a link to one of the articles with many pictures from yesterdays practice session. I also came across two photos showing Jonathan Woodgates horrible hair sense (Oooof! & WTF?)(Is he trying to look like a long lost member of the Ramones?), and the amazing looking bus Madrid rides around in. Do you think the bus me and my pals are riding to KC tomorrow will be like this one?

-Hans Westerhof meet William H Macy. William H Macy meet Hans Westeroff

MLS single table (*would miss playoffs if season ended today):

42 New England

41 San Jose

41 Kansas City

39 Chicago

38 DC United

35 FC Dallas

35 Los Angeles

33 Metrostars*

28 Colorado

24 Columbus*

19 Real Salt Lake*

13 Chivas USA*

-I should have posted this a week or so ago, but I totally missed it. Luis Bueno who writes for the Press-Enterprise (near LA in the Inland Empire) & MLSnet says: Stop hating Chivas USA. I'm guilty of this, I don't like Chivas just cuz of who they are and how cocky they were before they ever even played a game in the league. But secretly I want them to be huge and have tons of fans, creating even more rabid rivalries.

-This is about you and me (If we were English): Football fans are idiots (from the Guardian)

-Remember Brian West from Columbus. He has had a good run with Fredrikstad in Norway, and just signed a 3 year extension to his deal. Last year he was named to the leagues best 11.

-A little forewarning on the schedule for the FIFA U17 World Championship in Peru. All 3 USA first round (Group C) matches will be shown on Fox Soccer Channel starting Sept 17:

Sat Sept 17 v North Korea at 2pm central (delay)

Tue Sept 20 v Italy at 330pm central (live)

Fri Sept 23 v Ivory Coast at 330pm (live)

-UEFA Champions League games today and tomorrow - Third Qualifying Round, second leg (and first leg scores):

Third qualifying round, second leg

Tue Aug 23

Lokomotiv Moskva v Rapid (1-1)

Partizan v Artmedia (0-0)

Liverpool v CSKA Sofia (3-1)

Thun v Malmo (1-0)

Udinese v Sporting (1-0)

Rosenborg v Steaua (1-1)

Monaco v Betis (0-1)

Panathinaikos v Wisla (1-3)

Wed Aug 24

Rangers v Anorthosis (2-1)

Slavia v Anderlecht (1-2)

Ajax v Brondby (2-2)

Debrecen v Manchester United (0-3)

Club Brugge v Valerenga (0-1)

Bremen v Basel (1-2)

Internazionale v Shakhtar (2-0)

Villarreal v Everton (2-1)

The most interesting news from these matches is that Inter have to play their first 4 Champions League matches behind closed doors. The fans were asinine last spring, throwing flairs on to the pitch, hitting Milan keeper Dida, and the team having to forfeit the match. What a bunch of losers. The team will add to the weirdness by putting big screens around outside the stadium, so if the fans cheer loud enough, the players inside will be able to hear it.

The other match to watch is Everton (who are 2-1 down) and have to go to Villareal's El Madrigal stadium. They could be cooked.

-Not surprisingly, Amado Guevara of Metrostars was named MLS player of the week, after he scored 3 to draw Chivas USA.

-Week 2 of the Maradona TV show brings more hilarity and a surprising confession. During the show he said this: "It is a miracle that I live. But if Jesus stumbled, then why not I?" (thanks Anthony!)

-Rob Hughes of International Herald Tribune on George Weah (who acted like a lame ass rock star when he was here last spring - kept everyone waiting for hours with no explanation and no apologies - booooooring!): King George is taking aim at a presidency

-Midfielder Tiago has left Chelsea and signed with Lyon - I would assume this is unofficially part of the deal that brought Michael Essien to Chelsea from Lyon (and thus making Tiago expendable).

-And Aston Villa have signed Liverpool's Czech striker Milan Baros.

-The USL First & Second Division wrap ups from last week. Montreal (defending champs) & Rochester (perennial contenders) both has secured a spot in the post season. My Thunder are 5 points out of the 6th and final spot.

-The LA Galaxy are trying to re-obtain their former midfielder Marcelo Saragosa. He played very well for the Laxy last year, but turned down a contract for more money back in Brazil.
