Mark it down: Today is the day Zizou took over the reins of Real Madrid.

dN

Liga MX Clausura 2016 begins on Fri Jan 8.

dN

A year of discontent and regression for USMNT. By Matthew Doyle of MLSsoccer.com.

dN

An ugly 2015 for the USA men. By Doug McIntyre of ESPNFC.

dN

Predictions for 2016? Grant Wahl of Sports Illustrated makes his.

-He has New York Red Bulls pegged for MLS Cup winners.

dN

Portland has allowed 31 year old centerback Liam Ridgewell to take his 8 week off-season and cut it to 4 by going on loan to English 2nd division team Brighton + Hove. They better hope he holds up for the whole 2016 season.

dN

Can you believe that the Red Bulls of New York/New Jersey have signed 6 of their academy players to first team contracts since the end of last season. Seems to be that this trend is about to stop being news - its the norm now.

dN

Another new song from Mountain Singers for the new year!

The song is "iteration 2015.12.29 "

"I dreamed that presidential candidate and wealthy real estate tycoon Donald Trump had gone missing. After 4 days with no answers his head was found impaled on the wall separating the United States and Mexico. His body was never found. What a strange yet poetic dream. This is the soundtrack to that dream."

-Video

-Audio

dN

Milo Djukanovic, Prime Minister of Montenegro, has been named OCCRP’s 2015 Man Of The Year In Organized Crime - for his work in promoting crime, corruption and uncivil society

dN

Over Christmas weekend my father turned 84 years old and many pictures were taken. He declared he was done smiling though. "I have been looking at a lot of pictures of people in their obituaries lately and none of them are smiling, so I am done smiling for pictures." He didn't explain what his actual motive is, but I like that he is taking a firm stand. The next photo I took of him he smiled.

dN

The significance of local ownership: The new owner of Netherlands club ADO Den Haag made big promises when he bought the club in 2014 - the fans are still waiting for him to deliver. By James Montague of the New York Times.

dN

CONCACAF region people indicted for corruption by the USA Department of Justice:

Chuck Blazer - USA

Aaron Davidson - USA

Jeffrey Webb - Cayman Islands

Costa Takkas - Cayman Islands

Eduardo Li - Costa Rica

Brayan Jiménez - Guatemala

Rafael Salguero - Guatemala

Hector Trujillo - Guatemala

Alfredo Hawit - Honduras

Rafael Callejas - Honduras

Julio Rocha - Nicaragua

Ariel Alvarado - Panama

Reynaldo Vasquez - El Salvador

Jack Warner - T&T

Daryan Warner - T&T

Daryll Warner - T&T

dN

Week after week, this is a great column to read: English Premier League: 10 talking points from the weekend’s action. From the Guardian.

dN

On Nov 23 I wrote this about then EPL leaders Leicester:

-"Coming up in the next 6 games are Nov 28 v Man U, Dec 5 v Swansea, Dec 14 v Chelsea, Dec 19 at Everton, Dec 26 at Liverpool and Dec 29 v Man City. Lets see where they stand come New Years Day."

-Its now Jan 4, how did they do?

1 Nov 28 v #2 Man U 1-1 D

3 Dec 5 at Swansea 0-3 W

3 Dec 14 v Chelsea 2-1 W

3 Dec 19 at #7 Everton 2-3 W

0 Dec 26 at #8 Liverpool 1-0 L

1 Dec 29 v #3 Man City 0-0 D

-11 points

-Since then:

1 Sat Jan 2 v Bournemouth 0-0 D

-That's 3 games in a row with out a goal.

-Leicester has fallen 2 points behind Arsenal and into 2nd place.

-Odds are still very good that they will end up in the top 4 or 5, which is remarkable.

The Bird Is The Word
