We made a list before the season started of 30 MLS players who we felt had the potential to have a breakout season in 2013. We will track these players week to week to see who actually does "Breakout."

Week 7 Review:

Juan Agudelo - came off the bench and played the last 32 minutes, but needs to contribute more to the offense.

Alex - was not in uniform.

Eric Avila - played the whole game and was incredibly active, but not good enough.

Steve Beitashour - out injured.

Jerry Bengston - went the distance but the whole team appeared to be asleep.

Claudio Bieler - bye week.

Alex Caskey - played the entire game, but really needs to step up for this team.

Michael Farfan - came on as a sub in the 65th minute.

Gabriel Farfan - in uniform on the bench but did not play.

Diego Fagundez - dressed but did not play in a game where his team could have used some offense.

Perry Kitchen - played the entire game as usual but they were beaten comprehensively.

Mikey Lopez - bye week.

Darren Mattocks - came on as a sub with 27 minutes left to play.

Kenny Miller - out injured.

Mario Martinez - played 7 minutes and appears to be in the dog house.

Jack McInerney - went the whole game taking several shots, being dangerous, and scoring the game tier very late. His 4th goal of the season.

Kekuta Mennah - played the final 17 minutes.

Justin Meram - not on game day roster.

Amobi Okugo - played the entire match.

Martin Rivero - out injured.

Oriol Uri Rosell - bye week.

Kelyn Rowe - played 90 contributing nothing.

Chris Schuler - went the distance as they got a road tie. Picked up his 1st yellow card of the season.

Luis Silva - started and played 73 minutes, but didn't do much. I think his team needs to get him closer to the goal to succeed.

AJ Soares - went the full 90 and at least they kept a clean sheet.

Bakary Soumare - not in uniform.

*Zarek Valentin

Diego Valeri - out injured

Jose Villareal - played the last 45 minutes but joined the rest of his teammates in being fairly ineffective.

Sal Zizzo - out injured.

*Loaned to Norwegian team Bodo/Glimt for the 2013 season.
