It's Day 101 of 2017.

CONCACAF will ask FIFA to fast-track the bid process and name them hosts of the 2026 World Cup this year. By Sam Borden for ESPNFC.

People in Mexico are happy/unhappy with the World Cup bid. Only getting 10 games - 0 from the Quarterfinals onward - is a bit of an issue. But that's 10 games more than if the USA won the bid on their own. By Tom Marshall for ESPNFC.

dN

UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE

BREAKING: 3 explosions next to the Borussia Dortmund team bus today shattered windows, and player Marc Bartra suffered minor injuries. The team was headed to the Westfalenstadion for UEFA Champions League game v Monaco. The game will be played Wednesday.

A big, big, big, big home win for the Old Lady of Italy.

(Foreshadowing from this morning:) Young Argentine playmaker Paolo Dybala will try to do for Juve what his mentor Lio Messi does for Barca. By Rory Smith for the New York Times.

Quarterfinals Schedule/Results:

1st Leg

-Tue Apr 11

Juventus 3-0 Barcelona

Dortmund v Monaco - Postponed

-Wed Apr 12

Bayern v Real Madrid - 1:45pm CT on FS1

Atletico v Leicester - 1:45pm CT on FS2

Dortmund v Monaco - 1:45pm CT

dN

MINNESOTA UNITED

The new guys Cronin and Burch say the goals they gave up to Dallas are totally preventable. That's the spirit. But by Scott Sidway for MLS.

What the team is counting on from these two guys is to lead on the field, not just talk, after the loss.

Team is "getting better." By Megan Ryan for the Star Tribune. And by Andy Greder for the Pioneer Press.

With the loaning of Joe Greenspan to Pittsburgh the Loons have 3 centerbacks (Demidov, Calvo and Kallman) and 1 utility defender (Taylor) on the books. They need more ASAP.

Schedule/Results:

-Sat Apr 15

Houston Dynamo v Minnesota - 7:30pm CT on My29 in Twin Cities.

Minnesota and Houston both failed to score last round for the first time this season. Expect goals.

Who needs to step up in Houston?

Schuller: Can't get on the field. He was supposed to be the D to O connector. Right?

Kadrii: His defense is bad and his lack of offense should take him out of the lineup. I bet he has played most of his life in the middle of the field.

Cronin: That mistake in the center of the field was deadly. Took responsibility.

JVenegas: Needs to stay on his feet. The diving is annoying.

Calvo: Two bad errors have led to goals, and both were due to a lack of aggression. Clear the damn ball!

dN

MLS

My fave goals from last weekend:

Seth Sinovic rockets in a rebound.

Nicolas Lodeiro picks up a loose ball and shows how its done from long range.

Yura Movsisyan puts on the moves on the snow flakes.

Teammwork! Dwyer to Epinoza to Gerso Fernandes who does not miss, then jacks a home run out of the park to celebrate.

How about this lofted pass from Vazquez and back flick from Altidore to Sebastian Giovinco who beautifully finishes.

Yes it takes a deflection but this is a great counter attack by LA and goal for Jermaine Jones.

Oh yeah! McCarty slices the defense open with a long pass and Nemanja Nikolic only takes one touch - into the back of the net.

Lloyd Sam plays pick-pocket to score.

Points Per Game Top 5:

2.50 Dallas

2.25 Orlando

2.17 Portland

1.80 Houston

1.80 Kansas City

Atlanta United showing off their new training facility. Incredible. [PHOTOS]

dN

Albert Rusnak of Real Salt Lake Named MLS Player Of The Week

Seku Conneh of Bethlehem Steel Named USL Player Of The Week

Tom Heinemann of San Francisco Deltas Named NASL Player Of The Week

dN

The NWSL, National Women's Soccer League, 2017 season kicks off this weekend - Sat Apr 15 and Sun Apr 16.

dN

NBA player Carmelo Anthony owns the NASL team Puerto Rico FC - what kind of owner is he? By Scott Cacciola for the New York Times.

dN

The world's game is now firmly entrenched, and growing bigger and bigger in Texas. By Leif Reigstad for Texas Monthly.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

Jorge Villafana has seen a big upturn in his career in 2017 - playing in World Cup qualifiers and getting back into the starting lineup at Santos Laguna. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

The Bird Is The Word
