It's Day 2 of 2018.

FINALLY! The head of the Russian World Cup tournament was the same guy who organized their Olympic doping program. He has FINALLY stepped down from his World Cup post. And has "temporarily" resigned his position as head of the Russian Football Union. By Martha Keller for The Guardian.

In early December he was banned for life from the Olympics.

dN

MLS

Two years ago Toronto was still the worst club in MLS history. In a very short time they have become one of the very best. By Mark Zwolinski for the Toronto Sun.

LAFC signings so far - impressive:

Latif Blessing (Ghana)

Laurent Ciman (Belgium)

Omar Gaber (Egypt)

Jordan Harvey (USA)

Calum Mallace (USA)

Tyler Miller (USA)

Rodrigo Pacheco (Argentina)

Diego Rossi (Uruguay) DP

Marco Urena (Costa Rica)

Carlos Vela (Mexico) DP

Walker Zimmerman (USA)

Probably not as good as Atlanta United last year, yet, but LA still has over half a roster to fill.

Interview with LAFC GM John Thorrington and head coach Bob Bradley on roster building. By Kevin Baxter for the LA Times.

A letter to the fans from new Colorado Rapids head coach Anthony Hudson. From Burgundy Wave.

dN

USMNT

A January training camp opens on the 10th with mostly if not all MLS players.

They will play a friendly against Bosnia + Herzegovina on the 28th at the Stub Hub Center in Carson CA.

The question in the mind of Minnesota United fan's is whether or not Christian Ramirez gets called in. I waffle back in forth between Yes and No. Right now I am leaning Yes.

The federation is also holding a first-ever 10 day youth camp in Florida for a huge pool of players in the 15-20 year old range. Over 150 players are involved in the session run by Tab Ramos which started today. From US Soccer.

dN

AMERICANS ABROAD

An interview with Jonathan Gonzalez of Monterrey after an amazing breakout season as an 18 year old. By Mike Woitalla for Soccer America.

Q: When the full national team played Portugal in a friendly last November, you had already been starting for Monterrey for more than three months, but you were not on the U.S. roster ...

A: I wasn’t called in, in November. Personally, nobody came and talked to me and let me know about that friendly. I just wasn’t called in.

Antonee Robinson - a 20 year old left fullback to keep your eyes and ears on. Signed with Everton and currently on loan at Bolton. He was born in England and has an American passport. Has played 17 games so far this season.

Another youngster is struggling - Cameron Carter-Vickers. By Brian Sciaretta for American Soccer Now.

Words on Robinson too.

dN

EUROPE

Napoli leads Serie A at the halfway point. But they have have been in a similar spot the previous two years and failed to get the job done. By Paolo Bandini for the Guardian.

Only Two Teams Still Unbeaten in the 5 Big Leagues:

Manchester City 19-2-0

Barcelona 14-3-0

dN

BIG TEAMS + GAMES IN EUROPE'S 5 TOP LEAGUES

How would you like to be a Tottenham player this week? They play in the Premier League on Tuesday and Thursday, and then Sunday in the FA Cup.

Serie A in Italy is taking a 2 week break after games on Sat Jan 6, returning on Sun Jan 21.

Mid-Week Schedule/Results:

-Tue Jan 2

Swansea v Tottenham

Man City v Watford

-Wed Jan 3

Arsenal v Chelsea

-Thu Jan 4

Tottenham v West Ham

The Bird Is The Word
