Michael Carrick has said Manchester United are not in the Champions League to make up the numbers and insists his team can make an impression on the competition this season.

United will play their first Champions League tie for more than 1,000 days when Sabah FK visit Old Trafford on Thursday.

Carrick's team don't have the same recent pedigree in the competition as other heavyweights like Paris Saint-Germain, Barcelona, Bayern Munich and Premier League rivals Arsenal and Manchester City.

But United's head coach has backed his players to make an impact.

"It's where we want to be, it's what we want to get back to, and it's the best competition to challenge yourself and to push against the best," Carrick told a news conference on Wednesday.

"We're delighted to be here, but we're not here to just enjoy the occasion. We're here to do business and go as far as we possibly can.

"We're capable of some really, really good things, you know, and especially on our day, we feel that we can go up against anybody and come out on top."

Marcus Rashford is set to be available against Sabah after he trained as normal on Wednesday despite going off with an injury in the 2-2 with Everton on Sunday.

Luke Shaw is a doubt after he missed the session, although Carrick said the decision was based on managing the defender's workload.

- Premier League panel: Harry Maguire goal vs. Ipswich right to stand, Arsenal deserved penalty vs. Aston Villa - Marcus Rashford returns to training ahead of Manchester United's Champions League clash

"We just gave him an extra recovery day today," he said.

"We'll see by tomorrow how he is, but it's not an ongoing thing or a plan or anything like that. It was just off the back of the game the other day. So, as normal, each individual has different little things that we manage and Luke was one of them today."

Carrick will get his first taste of a busier schedule this week with Manchester City's visit to Old Trafford coming just three days after the Champions League opener.

City will get two days extra rest after facing FC Porto on Tuesday giving Carrick and his squad less time to prepare for the first Manchester derby of the campaign.

"I'm not concerned," said Carrick.

"I wouldn't say it's ideal in some ways, but it's not something that we've given too much thought about. We're not in control of that. We've got to deal with the cards that we're dealt and that's what it is, so we'll make the most of it."
