It's nearly that time again.

The 2026 Ballon d'Or awards -- the annual ceremony in which France Football Magazine crowns the best men's and women's players in the world -- are fast approaching, with the short list for each award announced on Tuesday.

The Ballon d'Or trophies are handed out based on the criteria of: "1) Individual performances, decisive and impressive character, 2) Team performances and achievements, 3) Class and fair play."

Any player in world football is eligible, no matter the league they play in or their country of origin, and the short lists are decided by a jury of 100 journalists from around the world. So who is nominated for this year's awards, and who could win?

The 2026 Ballon d'Or awards, which have long been presented by France Football Magazine, will be handed out on Oct. 26. There will be a difference this year, though: The star-studded ceremony will not take place in Paris. Instead, it will be held in London at The London Palladium theater to mark the gala's 70th anniversary.

The first Ballon d'Or ceremony was a much more humble affair, held in Blackpool, England, and awarded to 41-year-old star forward Stanley Matthews.

Matthews was an all-time England great who spent the majority of his career at Blackpool and Stoke City and, when announcing the venue change, was described by organizers as a "true ambassador of football."

"As the Ballon d'Or becomes of septuagenarian age, it is fitting in such a landmark year to celebrate the finest present-day exponents of the beautiful game in the beating heart of the country that first conceived of it," organizers added.

Club: Real Madrid Country: England

Bellingham didn't win a trophy with Real Madrid for the second year running, but the all-action midfielder was an important pillar of England's bronze medal-winning display at the 2026 World Cup. The 23-year-old scored seven goals at the tournament and his virtuoso two-goal display against Mexico in the round of 16 is likely to go down in Three Lions' folklore.

Club: Barcelona Country: Spain

A debut nomination for 19-year-old center back Cubarsi, who played an important role in Barcelona's 2025-26 title win before being crowned Best Young Player at the World Cup after playing every single minute of Spain's monumental victory, keeping seven clean sheets along the way. He is also nominated for the Kopa Trophy, which is awarded to the best player aged 21 or younger.

Club: Chelsea / Real Madrid Country: Spain

Cucurella was a mainstay for Chelsea in the Premier League in 2025-26 before completing a transfer to Real Madrid during the World Cup. The energetic left back played every single minute for Spain at the tournament, and even provided two assists before ending his summer as a world champion.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: France

Dembélé won the 2025 Ballon d'Or after starring for Paris Saint-Germain in the first of their back-to-back Champions League wins in 2024-25. Having repeated the feat with the club last season, the 29-year-old winger also accrued six goals and two assists for France at the 2026 World Cup.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: Colombia

Diaz was part of a Bayern Munich team that amassed 122 league goals in just 34 Bundesliga matches last season, with the Colombia forward accounting for 15 of them. He then scored one goal and notched an assist as his country were jettisoned from the World Cup at the round-of-16 stage on penalties by Switzerland.

Club: Manchester United Country: Portugal

One of the most reliable creative forces in the Premier League, Fernandes scored nine goals and weighed in with 21 assists for Manchester United in 2025-26, thus breaking the league's single-season assist record in the process. It then came as little surprise to see the Portuguese maestro crowned Premier League Player of the Season.

Club: Manchester City Country: Norway

Despite suffering an extended fallow period during the second half of the 2025-26 Premier League campaign that saw him notch just three league goals between January and mid-April, Haaland still powered to a third Golden Boot with 27 goals in 35 games. The Norway striker then scored seven goals in his debut World Cup outing while becoming one of the most popular personalities at the tournament.

Club: Arsenal Country: Brazil

Gabriel kept 17 clean sheets for Arsenal in their title-winning 2025-26 season, helping to solidify one of the most effective defensive lines in world football.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: England

One of the favorites to lift the 2026 Ballon d'Or, Kane scored an astounding 67 goals in 58 games for Bayern Munich last season across all competitions, including 36 goals in 31 Bundesliga games. However, the prolific striker did fall short in his quest to win both the Champions League and the World Cup -- though he did technically captain England to a third-place finish at the latter.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Morocco

Hakimi made only 18 appearances for PSG in the league last season but still ended up as a title and Champions League winner with the French giants. The right back also won the 2025 Africa Cup of Nations with Morocco -- although they lost the final to Senegal, the result was overturned by organizers due to their opponents prematurely leaving the pitch -- and he reached the quarterfinals of the World Cup the following summer.

Club: Barcelona Country: Spain

Yamal scored 24 goals in 45 games for Barcelona in all competitions as the Catalans wrapped up the Spanish league title in 2025-26. A lingering hamstring injury forced the winger to sit out the very start of the World Cup as he managed his fitness, but he was able to feature in the group stage in a reduced capacity. He then gradually grew in stature as the tournament progressed, with Spain ultimately emerging victorious.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Georgia

Instrumental for Paris Saint-Germain in their second successive Champions League victory, the Georgia winger relished playing on the big European stage and registered a sequence of 10 goals and six assists along the way.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Brazil

Rock-solid at the heart of the Paris Saint-Germain defense, 32-year-old center back Marquinhos split his 32 appearances equally between Ligue 1 and the Champions League in 2025-26, and ended up winning both.

Club: Al Nassr Country: Senegal

A fifth career nomination for veteran forward Mane, who pitched in with 14 goals in 36 games for Al Nassr last season as they were crowned champions of the Saudi Pro League. The 34-year-old Senegal star also guided his side to the final of the 2025 Africa Cup of Nations.

Club: Inter Milan Country: Argentina

Martinez won the Serie A and Coppa Italia double with Inter Milan in 2025-26, finishing as top goal scorer in the former and being crowned the best striker in the league as a result. He also scored three goals in eight games to help Argentina reach the final of the 2026 World Cup.

Club: Real Madrid Country: France

He may have gone two seasons without winning anything with Real Madrid, but Mbappe hasn't been shy in putting himself forward for the 2026 Ballon d'Or, remarking that this year would be a "good year" for him to win it. The striker scored 42 goals in 44 games for Madrid and duly carried his fine form into the World Cup with France, where he claimed the Golden Boot with an impressive 10 goals to his name.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Portugal

A league and European double winner with Paris Saint-Germain with the Portugal international routinely proving to be among the very best left backs in the world.

Club: Inter Miami Country: Argentina

With a record-extending 17th Ballon d'Or nomination, Messi is once again in the running to claim what would be a ninth career Ballon d'Or at the grand age of 39. The superstar is still scoring and assisting freely with Inter Miami in MLS, but his inspirational performances -- encompassing eight goals and four assists in eight games -- for Argentina at the World Cup this summer saw him come close to captaining his country to a second successive World Cup triumph, only for the dream to fall apart against Spain in the final.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: France

Nominated last year but finishing 30th out of 30 in the polling, Olise has seen his stock rise immeasurably over the past 12 months. The stylish, skillful attacking midfielder was an intrinsic part of the Bayern Munich side that cantered to the 2025-26 Bundesliga title and while he may not have found the net for France during their run to the World Cup semifinals this summer, Olise did lay on seven assists -- three more than any other player.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Portugal

He may only be 21 years old, but Neves has already developed into one of the most coveted midfielders in world football. A metronomic presence in the middle for Paris Saint-Germain and a Ligue 1 and Champions League double winner last time out.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Ecuador

Highly rated Ecuador center back Pacho made 44 appearances for Paris Saint-Germain last season, winning the league and European double.

Club: Al Qadsiah Country: Mexico

Quiñones outscored Ivan Toney and Cristiano Ronaldo in the Saudi Pro League with his club Al Qadsiah, bagging 33 goals to top the chart in 2025-26 before scoring four goals for Mexico at the 2026 World Cup.

Club: Arsenal Country: England

One of the most dependable and versatile midfielders in world football, Rice was a Premier League title winner with Arsenal in 2025-26, with five goals and 11 assists thrown in for good measure. He also started all seven of England's games at the World Cup, even scoring in the topsy-turvy bronze medal tie against France.

Club: Manchester City / Barcelona Country: Spain

The 2024 Ballon d'Or winner endured a fairly underwhelming 2025-26 season at club level with Manchester City though he did seem to recapture his form just in time for the World Cup, where he pulled the strings in magisterial fashion for Spain on their way to lifting the trophy before wrapping up a £65million transfer to Barcelona in the aftermath.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Spain

After an incredible season with Paris Saint-Germain and Spain, Ruiz can now claim to have won it all by adding a World Cup winners' medal to an enviable collection that already included the European Championship, the UEFA Nations League, the Champions League, various league titles and a host of other major honors.

Club: Barcelona / Paris Saint-Germain Country: Spain

Torres scored 21 goals in 49 games for Barcelona in their title-winning 2025-26 campaign, though his crowning glory must surely be scoring the goal that saw Spain pip Argentina to win the 2026 World Cup. He left Barcelona this summer to join PSG.

Club: Arsenal Country: France

Alongside defensive partner Gabriel, Saliba formed a watertight barrier at the back as Arsenal cut and thrust their way to the 2025-26 Premier League title.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: France

Upamecano won the 2025-26 German title with Bayern Munich and was named in the Bundesliga team of the year thereafter, despite only making 24 appearances. He then played eight times for France at the 2026 World Cup, conceding just two goals before Spain knocked them out at the semifinal stage.

Club: Real Madrid Country: Brazil

Vinicius Junior scored 22 goals in 53 games for Real Madrid last season, but frustratingly ended the campaign with little to show for his attacking endeavors. He then contributed four goals and an assist for Brazil at the World Cup.

Club: Paris Saint-Germain Country: Portugal

Another of Paris Saint-Germain's double winners, Vitinha made 50 appearances and scored seven goals for the French giants over the course of the 2025-26 season while being named in both the official Ligue 1 and Champions League teams of the season.

Club: OL Lyonnes Country: France

As one of the leading left backs in the game, Bacha helped Lyonnes to a domestic treble and another Champions League final, adding 13 assists to help maintain OL Lyonnes' dominance.

Club: Orlando Pride Country: Zambia

With 14 goals in 21 games, Banda has not slowed down her ruthlessness in front of goal, making her one of the most prominent attackers in the world.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: Germany

Even though she registered 10 goals for Bayern Munich this season, it is her 23 assists across 37 matches that have made Bühl a worthy nominee, leading the German champions to a domestic treble.

Club: Barcelona Country: Netherlands

In her first nomination for the Ballon d'Or, Brugts registered 13 goals and 11 assists across 48 matches for Barcelona highly contributing to another quadruple-winning campaign.

Club: Arsenal Country: Spain

Caldentey helped guide Arsenal to the inaugural Champions Cup title and retained Spain's Nations League trophy with her meticulous work rate and control in the midfield.

Club: Club América Country: Mexico

As the first female Mexican player to be nominated for the Ballon d'Or, Camberos has already made history. She scored 27 goals and registered seven assists when leading Club América to win the Concacaf Women's Champions Cup.

Club: Manchester City Country: Netherlands

The Dutch defender started almost all of City's victorious Women's Super League campaign, captaining the side when needed, adding seven assists and helping the team to another FA Cup victory.

Club: Kansas City Current Country: Malawi

Chawinga's impressive 15-goal tally played a key role in leading the Kansas City Current to the NWSL Shield, highlighting her crucial contribution to the team's outstanding regular-season campaign.

Club: Barcelona Country: Spain

Keeping 23 clean sheets in total, Coll ensured Barcelona claimed another quadruple and even kept a clean sheet during the Champions League final. She only conceded 18 goals all season in 39 games.

Club: OL Lyonnes Country: Haiti

Leading Lyonnes' attack, Dumornay netted 21 goals in the 2025-26 season, winning Première Ligue Player of the Year and guiding Lyonnes to another Champions League final. She added 12 assists to set up her teammates, making her one of the most valuable players in the game.

Club: Barcelona Country: Norway

With 17 goals and 16 assists in 45 games, Graham Hansen was as prominent as ever during Barcelona's quadruple-winning season.

Club: Manchester City Country: England

The England defender captained Manchester City to domestic a domestic double, ending Chelsea's supremacy over the Women's Super League as well as securing another FA Cup title in a comprehensive 4-0 win over Brighton at Wembley.

Club: Barcelona Country: Spain

Guijarro played a vital role in Barcelona's engine room, ensuring the juggernauts stayed on top. Amid injuries and changes, the Spain midfielder's skill did not waver, making her one of the best players in the world.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: Denmark

A prolific scorer, Harder's 35 goals and 12 assists made sure Bayern's domestic treble dreams stayed intact. She has won a domestic title every year since 2016 despite playing for three clubs in three different countries; 2025-26 was no different.

Club: Manchester City Country: Japan

As one of the most underrated players, Hasegawa has flown under the radar, yet the Japan international started 20 WSL matches for City last season and maintained the English champions' standard to claim a second domestic title. She won her 100th cap for Japan during the country's title-winning Women's Asia Cup run.

Club: Gotham FC Country: United States

Lavelle was a crucial figure in securing Gotham's NWSL Challenge Cup with 14 goals and five assists in 40 games.

Club: Barcelona / London City Lionesses Country: Spain

León was one of Barcelona's longest-serving players and started in 10 of the club's 11 Women's Champions League games on their way to lifting the trophy for the fourth time. This summer, though, she moved to emerging WSL team London City Lionesses.

Club: Kansas City Current Country: Brazil

The first-choice goalkeeper for both Kansas City Current and Brazil, she is of the most established goalkeepers in South American women's soccer. She is also nominated for the Women's Goalkeeper of the Year award.

Club: Manchester United / Chelsea Country: France

Malard was one of Manchester United's standout players as they reached the Women's Champions League quarterfinals in what was the club's debut in the competition, notching four goals and four assists over the course of eight appearances. This summer, she made a blockbuster move to Chelsea.

Club: North Carolina Courage / Chelsea Country: Japan

Named the NWSL's best midfielder in 2025, Matsukubo followed up with a superb start to the 2026 season with five goals and four assists in nine games before joining Chelsea in July. At international level, she won the Women's Asia Cup with Japan.

Club: Manchester City Country: Netherlands

Manchester City ended their decade-long wait for the Women's Super League title, and they could scarcely have done it without Miedema. The skillful forward started all but three of their league games last season, scoring 10 goals.

Club: Barcelona Country: Poland

When Barcelona need goals, Pajor is the first name they call upon. She was the 2025-26 Women's Champions League top scorer with 11 goals in 10 appearances. She is among the favorites for the Ballon d'Or Féminin.

Club: Barcelona Country: Spain

As prolific as her teammate Pajor is, Pina strikes a close second. She scored 21 goals in 27 games in Liga F last season, ending as the competition's top scorer.

Club: Barcelona / London City Lionesses Country: Spain

A favorite to win her third Ballon d'Or Féminin award, Putellas returned to being Barcelona's most crucial player in another landmark year, captaining the club to yet another quadruple. However, this summer, she ended her 12-year stay at the Camp Nou to join the London City Lionesses.

Club: OL Lyonnes Country: France

Even at 36 years old, Renard is still among the gold standard of center backs in the game. She was one win away from extending her record of eight Women's Champions League titles, only to see defeat to Barcelona in the final.

Club: Arsenal Country: England

With 18 goal contributions in 22 WSL games last season, Russo remains one of the best attacking threats in world soccer. She is also just one of two England players to make the short list alongside Manchester City's Alex Greenwood.

Club: Manchester City Country: Jamaica

With Manchester City not in European football last season, Shaw got to work focusing on scoring in the WSL and did so superbly. She finished as the competition's top scorer with 21 goals.

Club: Bayern Munich Country: Japan

Still only 21 years old, Tanikawa was an influential presence in the Bayern Munich midfield that helped the club reach the Women's Champions League semifinals, only to succumb to a hard-fought defeat to eventual champions Barcelona. At international level, she won the Women's Asia Cup with Japan.

Club: Real Madrid / OL Lyonnes Country: Scotland

Last year, Weir became the first Scottish player to be nominated for the Ballon d'Or Féminin, and she follows up with another short list this time out. She netted 14 goals for Real Madrid in Liga F last season, as well as appearing in the Women's Champions League. In June, she moved to OL Lyonnes.

Club: Inter Milan Country: Belgium

In her second season in Italy, Wullaert excelled with Inter Milan, scoring a league-high 14 goals, albeit the club did not manage to beat AS Roma to the Women's Serie A title.

The crowning of European soccer's best men's and women's players are far from the only awards that France Football Magazine will hand out on the night. As ever, there will be prizes for the best clubs and coaches, as well as awards for the best U21 player, best goalkeeper, top scorer and the player who made outstanding humanitarian and social contributions.

Here are the nominees for each of those awards:

Kerim Alajbegović, RB Salzburg / Juventus Ayyoub Bouaddi, Lille / Manchester City Pau Cubarsí, Barcelona Yan Diomande, RB Leipzig / Real Madrid Lennart Karl, Bayern Munich Junior Kroupi, AFC Bournemouth Lamine Yamal, Barcelona Johan Manzambi, Freiburg / Aston Villa Ibrahim Maza, Bayer Leverkusen Warren Zaïre-Emery, Paris Saint-Germain

Veerle Buurman, Chelsea Vicky López, Barcelona Felicia Schröder, BK Häcken / Real Madrid Clara Serrajordi, Barcelona Lily Yohannes, OL Lyonnes

Yassine Bounou, Al Hilal Thibaut Courtois, Real Madrid Joan García, Barcelona Gregor Kobel, Borussia Dortmund Emiliano Martínez, Aston Villa / Chelsea Édouard Mendy, Al Ahli David Raya, Arsenal Matvei Safonov, Paris Saint-Germain Unai Simón, Athletic Club Vozinha, Chaves / Colo Colo

Ann-Katrin Berger, Gotham FC Cata Coll, Barcelona Hannah Hampton, Chelsea Lorena, Kansas City Current Ayaka Yamashita, Manchester City

Mikel Arteta, Arsenal Luis de la Fuente, Spain national team Unai Emery, Aston Villa Vincent Kompany, Bayern Munich Luis Enrique, Paris Saint-Germain

Jonatan Giráldez, OL Lyonnes Andrée Jeglertz, Manchester City Nils Nielsen, Japan national team Pere Romeu, FC Barcelona Elena Sadiku, Celtic/BK Häcken

Arsenal Bayern Munich Bodø/Glimt Flamengo Paris Saint-Germain

Barcelona Bayern Munich Club America Manchester City OL Lyonne

Information from ESPN's Connor O'Halloran and Emily Keogh contributed to this report.
