It's Monday, another weekend of action is in the books, and it's time for the latest edition of ESPN's MLS Power Rankings.

Previous ranking: 1

While Nashville dropped points in a 0-0 draw against New York City on Friday, their biggest competitors for the Supporters' Shield slipped up, too. Both Vancouver and Miami failed to win, leaving Nashville with a 10-point lead atop the Shield race.

Previous ranking: 2

Despite taking an early lead, the Whitecaps quickly crumbled in a 3-1 home defeat against St. Louis. In what was, perhaps, their worst match of the season, Vancouver fell apart before halftime en route to losing to fellow contender out West for the second time in four games.

Previous ranking: 7

You couldn't have written a better script for St. Louis' Saturday night. Not only did new additions Rafael Navarro and Damion Downs make their debuts in the second half, but the visitors took the game to Vancouver and secured a 3-1 road victory. Doubt St. Louis' contender status at your own peril.

Previous ranking: 3

Miami's Achilles heel is widely known: they're a team that gets easily scrambled in their own third. With two sloppy fouls conceding two penalties to Atlanta, Saturday's 2-2 draw with the Five Stripes was the latest example of Inter Miami's defensive play letting them down.

Previous ranking: 5

Despite holding a one-goal lead heading into the intermission, LAFC's second-half concession saw them earn just a point on the road against Salt Lake. An unwillingness -- or inability -- to keep the ball late in games continues to bite for the Black & Gold.

Previous ranking: 6

After their scheduled meeting with D.C. United was postponed due to inclement weather, Cincinnati will have extra time to bed in their defensive reinforcements. That 4-0 loss to Nashville last time out still stings.

Previous ranking: 4

The good news? Chicago bagged four goals on Saturday, including one from Robert Lewandowski as he continues to find his place in the attack. The bad news? Chicago conceded four in a 4-4 draw with Toronto. It's safe to say Chicago are missing rising star Mbekezeli Mbokazi in the backline.

Previous ranking: 9

Up against a fearsome Nashville team, New York City manager Pascal Jansen opted for a fairly conservative approach on Friday. Ceding most of the ball, the Pigeons did well to keep Nashville scoreless, but they failed to create much danger themselves in a 0-0 home draw.

Previous ranking: 8

Trailing by two goals at halftime, the Revs couldn't find a way to equalize against the Galaxy on their way to a 2-1 road defeat. While Carles Gil's penalty conversion got them on the board, questions remain about whether the options New England have placed around him will produce.

Previous ranking: 10

Despite having a man advantage for the final 20-plus minutes of the match, Houston had a hard time creating much of anything in their 0-0 road draw with Charlotte. While attacking questions remain for Ben Olsen's outfit, the Dynamo's string of shutdown defensive showings mark them as a team that must be taken seriously.

Previous ranking: 13

While Charlotte couldn't find a breakthrough during their 0-0 home draw with Houston, Allan Saint-Maximin looked like the best player on the field. Dean Smith's new left winger was at the center of nearly every threatening move and has the look of an MLS star.

Previous ranking: 12

Still winless in league play since May, RSL drew 2-2 with LAFC on Saturday. They created a slew of quality chances, but also proved too open in defensive transition as control and tactical balance still eludes them.

Previous ranking: 16

Antoine Griezmann continued his absolute tear with the lone goal in Orlando's 1-0 win over San Diego. Now with eight goal contributions in eight games since debuting for the Lions, Griezmann has quickly turned around Orlando's season: they're now above the playoff line in the East.

Previous ranking: 14

If there's a debate about MLS's best striker, Petar Musa is doing his best to end it. The Croatia international managed two goals, including the game winner, and an assist in Dallas' 4-3 win over Kansas City. While the home side's focus lacked, Musa's certainly didn't.

Previous ranking: 15

Since league play resumed after the World Cup, the Union are yet to lose. Saturday's 2-0 victory over Montréal lengthened that streak of results to eight games, with six of them going down as wins. With yet another goal from Cavan Sullivan, Philadelphia are flying.

Previous ranking: 15

Missing star midfielder Jeppe Tverskov due to a card suspension, San Diego's ball progression never turned into regular chances in a 1-0 road loss to Orlando. Without the Dane, the sophomore side simply can't carry the same threat going forward.

Previous ranking: 11

For a team that prides itself on effective defending, conceding three goals in the first half in a 5-4 loss to the Timbers was nowhere near good enough for Minnesota. Still, breakout striker Marcus Caldeira's brace could signal longer-term attacking improvement for a team fighting for a playoff spot.

Previous ranking: 20

The Galaxy marked Sergi Roberto's first MLS start with a 2-1 victory over New England. The former Barcelona man was a touch magnet in central midfield, helping his new team conduct play. If Roberto and Chucky Lozano, who notched an assist, maintain this form, the Galaxy won't be easily dismissed.

Previous ranking: 22

Josh Sargent appears to be finding his form in MLS. While the U.S. striker had a quiet start to life in Toronto, he notched a hat trick in a 4-4 draw with Chicago over the weekend. It was a top-tier showing from Sargent atop Robin Fraser's attacking structure that led to a point for the hosts.

Previous ranking: 19

Now below the playoff line out East following a 0-0 draw in Seattle, that Red Bull New York didn't do more in the summer transfer window is a major concern. Without any game-changing additions made to the squad before deadline day, it's difficult to see how Michael Bradley's team will rebound.

Previous ranking: 21

On Saturday, Sounders fans could breathe a collective sigh of relief upon seeing Cristian Roldan make his first start for the team since May. Still, the USMNT midfielder's return wasn't enough to see Seattle claim their first win in months. A 0-0 draw with the Red Bulls had to suffice.

Previous ranking: 23

With star striker Kevin Kelsy now off to Rangers in the Scottish Premiership, replacement Vincent Janssen didn't waste any time filling the Venezuelan's shoes. Janssen notched a hat trick in the Timbers' wild 5-4 home win over Minnesota.

Previous ranking: 18

It looked as if the Quakes' winless run, one that stretches all the way back to May, was going to come to an end on Saturday. That is, until Austin managed a 97th-minute equalizer and a victory turned into a 1-1 draw for San Jose. The Earthquakes are in a bad, bad place.

Previous ranking: 24

D.C.'s meeting with Cincinnati was postponed due to weather, leaving the club without a chance to break a five-game winless streak.

Herculez Gomez and Cristina Alexander debate the biggest storylines and break down the best highlights that soccer in the Americas has to offer. Stream on ESPN+ (U.S. only)

Previous ranking: 25

Thanks to an equalizer from Guilherme Biro deep in second-half stoppage time, Austin secured a 1-1 draw against San Jose. The result marked four straight games without a loss in league play for the Texas capital club.

Previous ranking: 27

It didn't take Santi Rodriguez long to open his account in Columbus. The former New York City star bagged the opening goal for the Crew in a 3-0 victory over Colorado. With a remade attack, could this team make a late push for a spot in the postseason?

Previous ranking: 26

After trading Navarro to St. Louis and adding new pieces to the attack just before deadline day, the Rapids were nowhere near full strength in a 3-0 loss to the Crew. Colorado will have to wait for their new pieces to arrive and integrate to reach their full potential.

Previous ranking: 28

At last, there are signs of life in Atlanta. During their 2-2 draw with Miami, new striker Breel Embolo made his debut and scored a late equalizer from the spot. Elsewhere, young defensive midfielder Mauricio Amaro made his first MLS appearance and looked extremely comfortable amid his new surroundings.

Previous ranking: 29

Back to the bottom of the East after falling 2-0 in Philadelphia, it's difficult to see Montréal climbing the standings anytime soon. Even with Alexis Sánchez in the lineup, this team is still light on talent.

Previous ranking: 30

Although they managed one of their best attacking outings of the year, spurred on by new winger André Luiz's first start, Kansas City couldn't hold on for a point in Dallas. They fell 4-3 thanks to a late penalty by Musa.
