Racing Louisville's long-term viability as an NWSL club has been questioned for most of its brief existence. Now, the franchise is fast approaching a breaking point: the club sits second-last in in average attendance, its spending is near the bottom of the league, and its best player has asked to leave.

Even the club's ownership admits they "will be forced to do something." The most obvious solution is new ownership -- and, with it, comes the specter of relocation to a new city. The question then becomes: can Racing Louisville survive, or is the club's days numbered?

Racing Louisville's current ownership group, which is chaired by John Neace, has been priced out of an NWSL that looks unrecognizable to the league that they joined just over five years ago. The NWSL was still a fledgling league when Neace and his Soccer Holdings bought into the league for between $1 million and $2 million ahead of the 2021 season. Louisville had no competitors for an expansion team at the time.

Now, millionaire owners have been replaced mostly by billionaires with NFL-sized goals. Outside groups keep lining up to join the NWSL at increasingly steep prices. The most recent expansion team granted to Columbus, Ohio, cost an expansion fee of $205 million.

What was good enough five years ago is no longer sufficient. NWSL players can now make million-dollar annual salaries thanks to the newly created High Impact Player rule. Ambitious teams have double the technical staff members as Louisville. Top teams triple the average attendance of Louisville, whose 5,500 fans per game is better than only the struggling Chicago Stars.

Uncertainty has also spilled onto the field. Racing Louisville's star player, U.S. women's national team forward Emma Sears, has a standing transfer request, as ESPN reported in July. And Bev Yanez, the 2025 NWSL Coach of the Year who guided Louisville to the club's only playoff appearance to date, is out of contract in a few months.

Last year's playoff appearance looks like an anomaly after a wretched 2026 campaign thus far that has the team well outside playoff position with three-fourths of the season over.

After years of questions -- some fair, some not -- from colleagues around the NWSL about Louisville's place in the league, it is now obvious even internally that the franchise has fallen behind.

"Their ownership group has made clear that they are prepared to sell," NWSL commissioner Jessica Berman told ESPN in August. "The trajectory of this league has an investment thesis. Our owners, and the future of the league, need to be aligned in that investment thesis.

"They [Louisville] have made clear that they're not prepared to sign up for that. And so, they're raising capital because they want more financial support to be able to invest in the team, which is an indication of their understanding of what's required."

Berman said that the NWSL will work closely with the club toward a "mutually agreeable outcome." Whether that means the NWSL and a prospective new buyer view Louisville, Kentucky, as a viable long-term NWSL market is the elephant in the room.

"I think it could, for sure," Berman said. "It has to have the right level of ownership investment."

Multiple sources told ESPN that the ownership group of MLS's FC Cincinnati recently engaged with Racing Louisville about a potential sale and relocation 100 miles up the road.

FC Cincinnati also inquired about purchasing Racing Louisville in recent years, multiple sources confirmed to ESPN, but on each occasion those sources have cited personal relationships between ownership groups as an obstacle to a potential sale.

"FC Cincinnati's ownership and leadership remain deeply committed to the continued growth of women's soccer and will aggressively explore opportunities to expand our involvement," the club said in a statement to ESPN. "Cincinnati has proven to be a passionate soccer city, and we are excited by the possibilities to further support the women's game in our community. While there is nothing specific to comment on today, our commitment to advancing the sport remains strong."

FC Cincinnati unsuccessfully bid for a 2026 NWSL expansion team with a group including Caitlin Clark, and nearby Columbus has since landed a team for 2028. It is unclear if the NWSL would want to go from zero to two teams in Ohio, however, and the bigger sticking point is the sale price.

In theory, the new floor price for an NWSL team is the $205 million expansion fee that Columbus just paid. But Sportico and Forbes recently valued Racing Louisville at $127 million and $140 million, respectively, factoring in the club-owned Lynn Family Stadium and the team's training ground. Racing Louisville is worth less to a buyer who would move the team if they don't get those buildings.

Would any sale under $205 million undercut the NWSL's aggressive expansion strategy, considering interest remains high from plenty of prospective ownership groups in markets across the United States? Even if someone overpaid for Racing Louisville at $205 million, the NWSL has an incentive to avoid cannibalizing its own expansion.

One ownership group -- Neace and Soccer Holdings, which has several dozen investors -- would make money off a team sale. But all league owners would benefit from expansion fees.

There is precedent for the league stepping in, folding a club, and then awarding an expansion franchise elsewhere instead of allowing the outgoing owner to sell the team, as with the former Utah Royals in 2020. But in that case, the NWSL pushed out owner Dell Loy Hansen on the grounds of his alleged inappropriate behavior.

Sources have indicated the NWSL is working with Neace on a solution for Racing Louisville, which makes a sale most likely. If Racing were to fold, Neace and his fellow investors would miss out on the $100m or more they could get from selling. Folding has not been mentioned as an option by any sources around the league.

So then, what comes next for Louisville is as much a question of "where?" as it is "who?"

Berman has repeatedly called relocation a "last resort" through her four years as commissioner -- but the possibility is increasingly real for Louisville. (The Chicago Stars faced similar viability questions and still have not solved many of them despite an ownership change.)

"I think the infrastructure there is pretty good," Berman said about Louisville. "The investments they made early on in the stadium and the training facility were, in many ways, ahead of their time and set the standard. In order for that team to be successful in that market, we do have to solve for ownership from a financial perspective."

Neace said through a spokesperson in May, when ESPN first reported the team was seeking investment, that he was not interested in ceding controlling ownership or relocating the team. But sources, speaking on the condition of anonymity to protect relationships, said at the time -- and increasingly since -- that a majority sale and relocation were possible outcomes.

Neace recently publicly entertained both ideas. In August, Neace told a crowd at a local event that the club "will be forced to do something" if attendance numbers don't improve. A few days later, Neace told The Athletic that he was "still bullish" on the team and league, but he alluded to the idea of relocation if the "economic reality" doesn't change, comparing the situation to closing or relocating a struggling restaurant. (Neace was not made available for this story.)

Berman flew to Louisville in July and met with players, staff, corporate sponsors and Mayor Craig Greenberg for a "360 view of how everybody's doing, what their challenges are." Berman visits each NWSL market annually and said that such meetings, including with a city mayor, are standard on those visits.

Berman has consistently said that the three pillars to a strong market (new or existing) are invested owners, strong local support, and superior infrastructure. New investment in some form is being explored by Racing. Lynn Family Stadium and the adjacent training ground were each opened in the past six years. But the local support is the pillar in question without a clear answer.

From a league perspective, some of that local support is about public financing and politics, which Berman has increasingly discussed around expansion. Lynn Family Stadium sits in a neighborhood just northeast of downtown, but long promised development around the area has been slow to materialize.

"We want you to leverage the levers that you have in the community to get sponsors involved, to support on incremental investment in some of the ways in which stadiums need public support," Berman said of her conversation with the mayor.

There is also evidence that local fans want professional soccer. Louisville City, a second-division men's pro team, shares the same ownership group and has enjoyed strong success on the field, winning back-to-back USL titles in 2017 and 2018 and back-to-back Shields in 2024 and 2025. Average attendance for Louisville City games has historically also been about double that of Racing Louisville.

Professional soccer has had success in Louisville, so why has Racing struggled?

Ali Krieger, Cristina Alexander and Jeff Kassouf debate the biggest storylines and break down the best highlights from women's soccer in the Americas. Stream on ESPN+ (U.S. only)

Locals and sources on the ground have questioned whether the team has ever been properly and aggressively marketed, which requires recurring investment. Racing Louisville is the only first-division professional sports team in the city, men or women. Even if Racing's roster hasn't historically been star-studded, some of the best players in the world come through town on a weekly basis each summer.

But the fan apathy toward the club may also be the product of Racing Louisville's short-but-challenging history. The club was one of the epicenters of the 2022 investigation detailing systemic player abuse in the league.

Louisville hired Christy Holly as the team's first coach in 2020 despite -- as detailed in former U.S. deputy attorney general Sally Yates' report -- concerns raised by players at one of his previous employers. Racing Louisville investigated and fired Holly in 2021 after learning of allegations that he sexually abused a player.

Those disturbing allegations became public after the club had already stumbled through its initial roster-building process by selecting USWNT stars Tobin Heath and Christen Press in the now-defunct expansion draft in 2020. Both players' NWSL rights were available due to the NWSL's complex rules at the time, but Louisville had been informed that the players had no intention of playing there if selected.

Some fans initially interpreted that reported stance from Heath and Press as a slight against the market, but even before those abuse allegations, Louisville's hiring of the inexperienced and unsuccessful Holly was viewed by those around the NWSL as underwhelming and unambitious.

Prior to that, even the club's very first decisions went poorly. The club's original launch name of "Proof Louisville FC" -- an alcohol reference and a nod to the region's bourbon production -- prompted such strong backlash and derision that they pivoted to "Racing Louisville" instead.

Combine those front office missteps with Racing Louisville's poor on-field performances -- they finished in ninth each of their first four seasons -- and fan attrition and disinterest are understandable.

A prospective investor could view that history as the symptom to fixable problems and keep the team in Louisville. No matter where the franchise plays, it will need significant staff investments -- including larger technical and medical departments -- to compete in the NWSL and be a desirable destination for players and coaches.

They will also need to spend more to create a competitive roster. Sears is Louisville's only USWNT international. Sources previously told ESPN in July that the team was unwilling to entertain a midseason transfer for Sears but could be more open to an offseason move. An offseason transfer looks most likely with the roster freeze a few weeks away.

And Yanez, soon to be out of contract, is one of the league's rising head coaches who has attracted interest from several other NWSL teams in the past year.

As Berman said last month, "the art of the deal is that you have to marry together the interest of the seller and the interest of the buyer." She noted that the NWSL has done that nine times since 2022.

What to do in Louisville -- and whether the club has a future at all -- is the league's latest quagmire, and the solution could have a domino effect on other markets across the NWSL.
