A number of journalists

and writers have penned articles about Team America and the team's place within

American soccer history. With this

article, I intend to shine more light on the problems that plagued Team America

from its inception, but I also attempt to highlight the positives of the doomed

team's existence and its greater place within the history of American soccer,

and America's unofficial national stadium, Robert F. Kennedy Stadium.

Note: For the purposes

of this article, and brevity, one can assume that Team America and United States Men's

National Team carry the same connotation throughout the article. I use the two

terms interchangeably.

Having participated in every World Cup since 1990,

merely qualifying for the tournament is no longer a novelty for the United

States. Every four years, American’s expect the US Men’s National Team (USMNT)

to not only qualify for the world’s greatest sporting event, but also believe

the team can make a deep run in the tournament as they did in 2002.

Expectations for the US, prior to the World Cup draw in December 2013, were

arguably the highest they have ever been in American soccer history. This, of

course, was not always the case, as the US experienced a forty-year period of

futility between their legendary victory over England in 1950 to their three-and-out

appearance in Italy.

That is not to say that there was not a genuine

effort by the USMNT to qualify for the World Cup in the intervening years. Prior

to participating in the 1990 World Cup, the US would always fall short of

qualification, which was often the result of negligence from the sport’s

governing body in America, the United States Soccer Federation (USSF). The

governing body often left national team managers with little resources and just

days to assemble a competent squad prior to international fixtures. That is

assuming that the USSF were even able to convince North American Soccer League

(NASL) clubs to release their players for international duty in the first place.

Attitudes began to change in the early 1980s. The NASL was hemorrhaging money

year after year, and the brass within the USSF began to realize the importance

of the World Cup and the revenue it could generate. The sudden interest crystalized

during the winter of 1982-3 culminating in the formation of Team America, and

led to the first legitimate use of Robert F. Kennedy (RFK) Stadium as the USMNT

home ground making it the unofficial national stadium.

http://www.sportslogos.net

Team

America; A Questionable Concept

Team America was the brainchild of NASL President

and CEO Howard Samuels. He presented the concept of the USMNT competing

as a franchise (Team America) in the floundering NASL at the league’s annual

meeting in late October 1982. The impetus behind the plan was three-fold: to ramp up the Americanization of

the game and develop a national team that could qualify for the 1986 World Cup,

to develop a national team that could potentially compete in the 1984 Olympics

in Los Angeles, and, most importantly, to generate interest and revenue for the

NASL. The idea even had the support of the USSF, which given the history of

relations between the two entities was a victory in itself. In the end, the

league owners voted 10-1 in favor of the idea during the league’s annual

meeting with only the Tulsa Roughnecks voting against the endeavor (The New York

Cosmos abstained from voting). The Oklahoma based club may have not known what

was to come, but by casting a dissenting vote, became the first in a long line

of detractors to the Team America concept.

From its earliest manifestations, the suggestion of

Team America proved a questionable effort. Though USSF president Gene Edwards backed

Howards’ idea, and the Major Indoor Soccer League (MISL) and semi-professional

American Soccer League (ASL) tentatively agreed to contribute to the development of

the USMNT, the proposal reeked of desperation. Up to that point, the NASL, who

would benefit most from the creation of Team America, had shed twelve teams in

four years leaving the league with just eleven remaining clubs going into the

1983 season. The inclusion of Team America would bring the total to twelve. Nevertheless, with the

approval of the NASL’s owners in October 1982 Howards committed to the

formation of Team America even if he doubted the viability of fielding a team

in 1983. Samuels, shortly after gaining the league’s approval for the formation

of Team America stated, “I don’t know if we can pull it (Team America) off this

year given the time factor, but it’s almost certain it will go in 1984.”

Samuel’s tactful statement on the feasibility of fielding a team in 1983 proved

an act of smoke and mirrors, as the nascent idea of Team America haphazardly

came to fruition throughout the ensuing months following the league’s annual

meeting.

Initially, Samuels proposed that Team America could

compete in two cities: America’s soccer Mecca, St. Louis, or the Nation’s

capital, Washington, D.C. By December, Samuels ruled out St. Louis as a host

city after the NASL was unable to convince Anheuser-Busch to fund the team. The

brewery balked at the notion that Team America would be able to compete in 1983

as did many others within American soccer circles. Inevitably, Washington, D.C.

became the home of Team America as Samuels and the NASL hastily pressed forward

with the intent to have Team America take the field for the 1983 further highlighting

the exasperation of the league’s owners to turn the league around. By early

December, Samuels and the NASL owners tentatively agreed that the existing

clubs would loan American players to the National Team (Team America) with the

USSF and outside investors and sponsors covering the club’s expenses. An

official agreement from the various bodies would not be in place until the

following month.

New York Cosmos midfielder Ricky Davis in 1979

http://www.nasljerseys.com

Even before an owner/investor stepped forward to

fund the growing idea of Team America or a provisional roster existed, some of

America’s players openly questioned the formation Team America, chief among

them New York Cosmos forward Ricky Davis. At the time of Team America’s hurried

organization, Davis was undeniably the best, and most creative, American player

in the NASL. In an op-ed to the New York

Times on December 12, 1982, Davis railed against the Team America concept

stating, “For the good of the United States national team’s qualifying effort

for World Cup ‘86, I question the Team America project." Davis further decried

Team America’s attempt to cull American players from existing NASL clubs who

would benefit from more playing time at their respective clubs. Davis was not

alone in his sentiments towards Samuels' Team America venture. Many more people

within American soccer questioned the viability and practicality of Team America. Undeterred, Samuels was sure to offer

Davis and other detractors a rebuttal a week later stating, “I see Team America

as crucial to the growth of soccer in this country.” By then a rift between

those in favor and against the proposal had widened. Perhaps most telling about

Davis’ article was his insistence that Team America consist of America’s best

players because if it was not, “its whole purpose is defeated at square one.”

His thoughts proved prophetic by season’s end.

Team

America = USMNT

Just months after Samuels proposed the concept of

Team America, the NASL, the NASL Players Association, the MISL Players

Association, and the USSF finalized the details surrounding the team in January

1983. Under the agreement between the governing entities, Team America, in

addition to being financed by “team owner” Robert Lifton, would receive

financial support from the USSF and outside sponsors. Team America would be

entitled to, at most, three American players from each existing NASL franchise

and would pay the player’s parent club $50,000 in addition to paying the player’s

salary and relocation fee. Though the agreement made it compulsory for NASL

clubs to release their players to Team America, the players had the right to

refuse Team America’s loan request, which, in essence, was tantamount to

refusing a national team call-up. The finalized agreement also alluded to the

intent of the USSF to schedule a number of international games for Team America

after the upcoming NASL season. In addition to the official creation of Team

America, the NASL and USSF announced the schedule for the team’s upcoming

training camp, and most importantly dictated that the USSF had the

right to name the team’s coach making Team America the USMNT incarnate.

Cosmos defender Jeff Durgan. The future Captain America?

http://www.nasljerseys.com

Following the final details surrounding the

formation of Team America, the team moved closer towards completion after

Lifton signed an eight-year lease with RFK Stadium with the intent to house a

NASL club in Washington, D.C. after the 1986 World Cup making RFK the unofficial national stadium in the process. Preparations for Team

America’s roster were also moving closer to finalization after the team invited

thirty-nine players to Tampa, Florida for a preseason training camp. The thirty-nine invitees were to compete for twenty final roster spots. The

only issue surrounding the national team camp was that the USSF had not

appointed a national team coach for the team prior to announcing the camp’s invitees.

The lack of a head coach left many players miffed. After

receiving an invitation to the preliminary training camp, Cosmos defender Jeff

Durgan offered the most damning opinion of the ongoing concept and the USSF’s

involvement stating,

“They want us all to come to the training camp on

February 1st, and sign our careers away to this thing without a

coach. If they get a coach with character, who is strong, who will implant his

own ideas, and won’t be a puppet of the USSF, that will weigh heavily on

everyone’s decision.”

Of course, Durgan was not alone in his opinion, as

Ricky Davis, and many others, had already criticized the idea in the months leading up to Team America’s official commencement. Despite

the uncertainty and stigma surrounding Team America, several players were

willing to sacrifice their careers to fulfill the goals of Team America. Durgan

would eventually become the loudest voice in the campaign to promote the USMNT

and Team America. Perhaps in an effort to appease those questioning their

intentions and the viability of the entire concept, the USSF named Alkis

Panagoulias USMNT, and Team America, head coach on January 28, 1983, just days

before the national team camp was scheduled to begin.

Panagoulias, a naturalized American citizen, had his

detractors, but was more than up for the task of managing Team America. As former manager of the Greece National Team

and of Greek powerhouse Olympiakos, Panagoulias came into the fold with more

than enough experience to guide the United States to the 1986 World Cup. The

native of Greece also had considerable experience playing and coaching the

sport in the United States having captured three US Open Cup titles as coach of

the New York Greek-Americans from 1967 to 1969. Panagoulias wanted to coach a team

built upon the tenets of Team America as far back as 1967, believing it was

only a matter of time before the US were able to compete on the international

stage. The ultimate question surrounding Team America following Panagoulias’

appointment was if he would be able to cobble up a competent all-American

roster to compete in the NASL’s 1983 season as not everyone was willing to

support the impulsively manufactured national team.

Panagoulias in 1993 as coach of the Greece National Team

Photographer: Ben Radford

Source: Getty Images

Panagoulias’ first task upon taking the reins of

Team America was to assess the American talent at his disposal during the team’s

training camp in Tampa. On paper, Panagoulias’ job of selecting a national team

of twenty players seemed simple, but petty politics, player’s attitudes towards

Team America, and the timing of the camp all provided Panagoulias with a near

insurmountable task. Originally scheduled to start February 1, the team pushed the

start of camp back a week due to the ongoing negotiations concerning player’s

contracts and their parent club’s compensation further highlighting the

desperation and haste surrounding the

implementation of Samuels’ proposal.

With a multitude of problems plaguing Team America,

some of the biggest problems Panagoulias faced heading into the camp were the

outright refusal of players to respond to what amounted to a national team

call-up, and clubs competing in the MISL, like the Chicago Sting, declining to

release their players to Team America. The USSF ultimately fined the MISL for

their clubs refusal to cooperate with the governing body drawing the ire of the

club’s owners in the process who threatened to withdraw from the federation.

The rift between the MISL, NASL, and the make-up of Team America would only

widen throughout the team’s existence.

Of the thirty-nine players invited into the camp,

only twenty-two opted to attend, a sign of the problems ahead for Panagoulias

and the national team. Nevertheless, Team America pushed forward in developing

a competent roster with Panagoulias refusing to beg for players stating, “I

will go with what we have here.” The camp, though plagued by significant player

snubs and absences, provided the developing Team America with significant games

against the Tampa Bay Rowdies, the University

of Central Florida, and the University of Tampa. Able to judge the talent

available due to these games, Panagoulias named a sixteen-man roster following

its conclusion. Ricky Davis was the most notable inclusion on the roster, but the Cosmos

midfielder ultimately refused to sign with Team America after weighing a list

of pros and cons of the experiment and its effect on his career. Following his refusal to play

for Team America, Davis stated he would compete for the national team in international

competitions if called upon showing the lack of recognition Team America

garnered as the USMNT among some of those involved in American soccer. Other

player snubs, and MISL holdouts left Panagoulias with a roster of thirteen players following the camp.

Perry Van Der Beck as a member of the Tampa Bay Rowdies

The camp was a precursor of what was to come for

Team America, as the team, led by former Cosmos players Jeff

Durgan, and Tony Crescitelli, and US International Perry Van Der Beck, would

experience considerable growing pains before the start of the 1983 NASL season.

Following the team’s invitee training camp, Team America committed to an

international tour in April consisting of a series of matches against Haitian and Colombian opponents, including the Haitian National Team. The match against

Haiti, a FIFA sanctioned international friendly, all but dispelled any

resistance to the fact that Team America was the acting USMNT. Prior to embarking

on their international tour, the newly announced team members convened in Washington to continue preseason preparations

for the 1983 NASL campaign. In order to develop cohesion prior to their international tour, the members of Team America

participated in a series of contests against local colleges, amateur teams, and

a side consisting of performers of the Ringling Brothers circus.

Stay tuned for the second part of this article to

find out just how Team America fared in their only NASL season and what contributed

to their demise. Don't forget to read Part Two.

In writing this article, I relied on a multitude of

sources. As always, I consulted a number of period newspapers for primary

source material. I used the following newspapers in constructing this article: The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times, and

The Washington Post. In addition to

these dailies, I also consulted numerous websites and articles including: Ian Plenderleith's piece on Team America, Tom Dunmore's look at the team, http://www.nasljerseys.com, Sports Illustrated, and, as always, the American Soccer History Archives.
