In

the fall of 1968, the NASL flirted with extinction after its inaugural season.

The league, after a merger between the USA and the NPSL, failed to capture the

attention of the American sports fan as the owners had planned. Clubs drew less

than 5,000 fans a game collectively, which ultimately led to twelve of the

NASL’s seventeen teams to abandon the league all together. In the midst of this

turbulent atmosphere, Janusz Kowalik, along with Pepe Fernandez, netted a

league record thirty goals during the 1968 season. The record stood for a

decade until Giorgio Chinaglia scored thirty-four goals during the 1978 NASL

season. Due to the league’s popularity at the time of Chinaglia’s feat, the

press covered the Italian’s exploits extensively and his place within the

league’s history is unquestionable. Yet Janusz Kowalik is little more than a

footnote in the league’s history due to the leagues near insolvency in 1968.

Kowalik, like many of the NASL’s early players, remains a relative unknown, but

his path from amateur to NASL MVP is truly remarkable.

The Youngest to

Ever Play

Janusz

Kowalik had been a professional footballer for seven years by the time he

signed with the Chicago Mustangs in 1967. In 1960, he became the youngest

player to play in the Polish top flight when he suited up for K.S. Cracovia at

the age of sixteen. Janusz had been involved with the Polish team throughout

his childhood, as his father was one of the club’s youth coaches giving Jan

immediate access to the club. In addition to his achievements with the Cracovia

first team, Kowalik featured in the Polish Under-18 team that ultimately

lost the UEFA Under-18 championship to Portugal in 1961.

Courtesy of Cracovia

All

told, Janusz spent six years playing for Cracovia, though his

service for the club was not continuous. Due to the Poland Communist

government’s heavy affiliation with the sporting clubs throughout the country,

the government deemed all of the players in Poland amateurs, meaning the pay

was far less than professionals in the West. This proved somewhat problematic

to the young Kowalik. In October of 1962, due to his growing status within the

locker room, Kowalik vented his team’s frustrations at their meager pay. Consequently,

Cracovia’s management banned Kowalik for two years accusing him of trying to

blackmail the club out of money. In the end, Kowalik ended up serving a

nine-month suspension, before eventually returning to the first team.

Ultimately, his dissatisfaction with the professional atmosphere in Poland led

Kowalik to make drastic changes.

Kowalik’s

pedigree and penchant for goal eventually earned him a spot on the Polish

National Team. He made his international debut against Belgium in 1965, and earned six caps from 1965-66. He failed to score a goal in his six

appearances, but he came close hitting the post in the dying minutes of a 1-1

draw with England at Goodison Park in 1966.

Since the time of his nine-month

suspension, Kowalik had been looking for a way out of the country to play

abroad, despite his growing profile within Poland. After six years with Cracovia,

Kowalik played his last game with the club against LKS Lodz on November 27,

1966. At the time, only Kowalik knew that he would never play within Poland again.

Following the end of the season, Kowalik officially left Poland for an

offseason vacation. His true intentions were more elaborate.

Kowalik’s

vacation was a planned exodus from the country. From the time he planned his

“vacation,” Jan intended to play outside of Poland. At the time the Communist regime

within Poland and the Polish Football Association (PZPN), the governing body of

Polish soccer, did not allow players to transfer out of the country until after

their thirtieth birthday. Kowalik’s escape provided a way around that rule.

Because of his father’s connections within the Polish military, Kowalik was

able to obtain a passport and legally left the country on holiday at the age of

twenty-three. By the time he reached Belgium, en route to the United States,

officials within the Polish government became aware of his plan but were unable

to stop him.

Chicago Eagles

Once

in America, Janusz naturally made his way to Chicago, which had—and still has—the

largest concentrated Polish population outside of Warsaw. Jan had family in the

city and settled in with his cousin Leon. Upon establishing himself in Chicago,

Kowalik quickly found a club. The Pole arrived in the U.S. while the interest

in professional soccer was in its nascent stages. Two professional leagues debuted in the spring of 1967; the FIFA sanctioned United Soccer Association

(USA), which imported clubs from around the world to compete, and the CBS

televised National Professional Soccer League (NPSL). Despite his talent,

Kowalik did not sign with either league upon his arrival in the U.S. Due to his clandestine departure from Poland

and the ongoing formations of the new professional leagues, Kowalik could not

legally sign with another professional team without the authorization of

Cracovia and the PZPN.

Therefore,

Janusz took the road less traveled and signed with an amateur side, the Chicago

Eagles (AAC Eagles), a historic Polish club in Chicago’s National Soccer League (NSL). The NSL was one of the premier amateur leagues in the United States upon his arrival. The Eagles also happened to be one of the most potent

teams in the league during that period.

Once he signed, Kowalik exhibited his ability

at once. He and fellow Poles Hubert Miller and Walter Kaszubski made their

Eagles debut during the NSL’s indoor season. The Poles showed no apprehension

and took the indoor game naturally. In the end, the Polish trio displayed their

class in a 3-1 win against the Ukrainian Lions in early February 1967. Kowalik

served as the club’s playmaker while Miller booted in two goals in the trio’s

debut. Eventually, the Poles led the Eagles to the NSL’s 1967 indoor

championship in March. By the time the NSL opened its outdoor season, Kowalik

was a known quantity within Chicago’s soccer circles and his talent began to

draw considerable interest from the newly formed professional leagues.

By

May 1967, the two newly formed soccer leagues were in direct competition for

players to fill their club rosters. Initially, the FIFA sanctioned USA intended

to begin play in the spring of 1968, but the renegade NPSL insisted on starting

in 1967 forcing the USA to abandon its plans. In order to get a jump on the

NPSL, the USA resorted to importing teams from around the world to compete in

its inaugural season, while the NSPL acquired semi-pro and amateur talent from

around the U.S. as well as foreign players. The owners of the USA planned to

import teams during its first season in order to legitimize its league and

attract fans, knowing that they would eventually build rosters by signing

individual players and draw their talent from the existing talent pool in the

U.S. In the end, Chicago ended up with two professional clubs; the NPSL’s

Chicago Spurs, and the USA’s Chicago Mustangs, represented by the Italian club

Cagliari Calcio. The creation of two professional teams in Chicago gave the

best players in the NSL an opportunity to turn pro. Chicago Mustangs and

Chicago White Sox owner, Arthur Allyn Jr. readily identified the talent in the

city’s amateur league and set about signing many of the NSL’s players in

preparation for the USA’s 1968 campaign. Kowalik was one of their main targets

and one of the club’s first signings.

As

with any transfer or signing, clubs have to address several legalities before

acquiring a player. Kowalik’s situation made his signing with the Chicago

Mustangs all the more unique and challenging. As the Eagles did not hold

Kowalik’s rights, the Mustangs Frank Meder had to negotiate directly with the

club that Kowalik abandoned just months earlier, Cracovia. In addition to

Cracovia, Meder and the Mustangs had to negotiate with both the PZPN and the

Polish government for Kowalik’s services. Negotiations between the parties

lasted weeks. Officially, the Mustangs paid around $20,000-$22,000 for

Kowalik, but as was customary when purchasing players from countries within the

Soviet Bloc, Cracovia, the PZPN, and the Polish government all received

substantial amounts of money under the table on top of Kowalik’s official

transfer fee. In addition to the extra fee the Mustangs paid for Kowalik, the

Polish triumvirate forbade any stories about Kowalik’s move for several years,

lest other players follow his example.

Spring Training

Courtesy of www.nasljerseys.com

In

addition to Kowalik, the Mustangs plucked three other players from Chicago’s

National Soccer League in May 1967. Besides the Pole, the professional club was

able to pry Edward Murphy, Tomas Fotiatis, and Fotis Dakouvanos from the

amateur league. The Mustangs were also able to sign former Ajax midfielder

Werner Schaaphok and Norwegian goalkeeper Ray Olsen at the same time.

While

Meder was signing Kowalik, Caligari Calcio, disguised as the Chicago Mustangs, kicked

off the USA season on May 28 1967. The Mustangs never intended Kowalik and the

others to take part in the 1967 season, as Cagliari were already competing as

the Chicago Mustangs, but signed the four players for the following season. Consequently,

the quartet was part of a group of around forty players that the Mustangs

shipped to Sarasota, Florida to train under former U.S. National team coach

George Meyer during the summer. In essence, there were two different Chicago

Mustangs teams during the summer of 1967; the team that was taking part in the USA

season, Cagliari, and the group led by Kowalik, who were unheralded members of

the club and technically part of the following season’s team.

Sarasota

was the spring training home of Allyn’s Chicago White Sox and, due to the

owner’s stature in South Florida, the city became the home of the Mustangs in

June 1967. While Caligari was representing Chicago, Kowalik, and a group of

professional hopefuls, got to work.

Of about forty players, only a handful of

players were under contract for the 1968 season. The rest of the group was on

training contracts for the summer. Upon arrival, the club convinced local

residents to form a caravan to transport the players from the

Sarasota-Bradenton Airport to the Sarasota Motor Hotel, the player’s home for

the duration of the camp. The idea to house and train players in Sarasota was

Arthur Allyn’s intention as soon as the USA formed. The fact that he had to

import a team to compete in the league during its first season did not change

his plans, and Kowalik was the embodiment of his original idea of capturing the

best talent available in the U.S.

While

the Italians competed as the Mustangs in the USA, Meyer trained the future

Mustangs at a peewee football field in Sarasota until a soccer complex financed

by Allyn was completed. The initial camp lasted two months, from the beginning of June

until the end of July. The purpose of the camp was to identify players that

could represent Chicago professionally before the team returned to Florida for

its preseason camp in January 1968. Judging from the press covering the

Mustangs, soccer was an alien sport to the audience of Sarasota Journal. Despite the foreign nature of soccer to

Sarasotans, Kowalik stood out amongst the Mustangs within a week. The Pole’s ability

to score goals was unquestionable, and he quickly earned the praise of the

local press. By the end of June the Sarasota Journal deemed Kowalik soccer’s Joe DiMaggio. The press

continually highlighted his exploits for the duration of the camp. The climax

of the Mustangs first training camp was a series of games against the 1968 U.S.

Olympic Team, captained by future Mustang—and U.S. National team coach—Bob

Gansler. Other than the Olympic scrimmage, the camp proved to be of little

consequence to Kowalik’s place within the team, but signaled how important he

would be to the club moving forward.

By

the end of the camp, Kowalik and several of Chicago’s other signings were the

only Mustang team remaining. Cagliari finished the USA campaign with a record

of three wins, seven draws, and two losses and returned to Italy following the

short season. Despite their unimpressive record, Cagliari fielded the league’s

leading scorer Roberto Boninsegna, who finished the season with ten goals.

Predictably,

both the USA’s and NPSL’s seasons proved to be extremely underwhelming. The

leagues owners overestimated the pull the sport would have in the U.S. The

lackluster gate receipts and abysmal attendance figures eventually led to a

merger between the two leagues in December. The newly formed league took the

original name of the USA, and became the North American Soccer League (NASL).

Seventeen of the two leagues twenty-two teams signed on for the 1968 season. Of

the two Chicago franchises, the owners chose the Mustangs to represent the

Windy City, while the NPSL’s Spurs relocated to Kansas City. Much of the

wrangling between the two leagues proved irrelevant to Kowalik and the

Mustangs, as they continued to train throughout the calendar year. The group

even played a series of games in Chile, where they won over Chilean fans with their

professional level of play. Allyn used the Mustangs performance in South

America to tout not only his team’s abilities, but also to highlight the

success of the summer training camp. The team’s embarrassing 8-1 loss to Slavia

Prague in Chicago in late November did not figure into Allyn’s praise. Kowalik

again proved his worth in the club’s horrid showing scoring the lone goal for

the Mustangs.

In

January 1968, Kowalik and the Mustangs returned to Sarasota to prepare for the

first NASL season. The local press celebrated the club’s arrival and continued to

trumpet Kowalik’s obvious talent. The club intended to stay in Florida as long

as they could find competitive games, which proved a questionable endeavor. During

the course of January, Kowalik and the club played local teams, which proved

immensely inferior to the professional Mustangs. In their first training match,

the Mustangs annihilated New College, a local university, 17-2. Kowalik netted

six goals in the contest. Subsequently, the Mustangs rolled through several

other teams, including a side made up of circus performers and a

Mexican-American All-Star team comprised of migrant workers attending the

season’s crops. The only real competition that the Mustangs faced during their

preseason training camp was a four-game series against the NASL’s Houston Stars

franchise. The Stars proved a worthy opponent and won three of the four

contests. In the end, the Mustangs remained in Florida until the end of

February. The two-month training camp served as a tune-up for the club’s

legitimate preseason games against European competition.

Courtesy of http://www.wisoccer.org

While

several of the other NASL teams were playing preseason games against Caribbean

teams, Owner Allyn and Coach Meyer wanted to test their group prior to the

club’s NASL opener on April 14, 1968. The Mustangs embarked on a nine-game tour

of Europe during the month of March, scheduling games against the likes of

Athletic Bilbao and Red Star Belgrade. In their first game against Austrian

side FC Wacker, the Mustangs fell 5-2.

Kowalik netted both of Chicago’s goals, once again proving his

troublesome transfer was well worth it. The Mustangs then lost 4-0 to Red Star

Belgrade and 1-0 to FK Sloboda in their next two games. Chicago wrapped up

their preseason exhibitions with an 8-0 beating at the hands of Atletico Bilbao. Out of ten

games, the Mustangs won once, tied once, and lost eight times. On the face of

it, the tour was a disastrous undertaking, but the games provided an unseen

benefit. While most of the league were warming up against inferior teams, the

Mustangs, though losing handily in some games, competed against legitimate

competition. Kowalik and the Mustangs quickly forgot the embarrassing results

and turned their attention to the first NASL season. The season would prove fruitful

for Kowalik as the Pole continued his fine form and banged in a record number

of goals.

The Blond Bullet

After

nearly a year of training, the Chicago Mustangs kicked off their thirty-two

game 1968 NASL season on April 12, 1968 against division rivals the Cleveland

Stokers at Comiskey Park. In a stadium that could hold over 46,000 people, just

1,395 fans showed up to see the new more American Mustangs. Kowalik was absent

from the lineup, nursing an ankle injury he sustained during the club’s European

tour. Without the Pole, the Mustangs lacked a genuine goal-scoring threat and failed

to outscore their opponents, dropping their season opener 2-1. The Mustangs also lost their second game

5-2 to the Kansas City Spurs while Kowalik recovered. The club and fans alike

had until the Mustangs third game to witness the Pole’s ability firsthand. Once

he broke into the lineup, Kowalik proved his preseason goal-scoring prowess was

no fluke.

Courtesy of www.nasljerseys.com

Fully

healed, Kowalik made his second professional debut against the Atlanta Chiefs

twelve days after the season opener on April 24. On a cold spring night in

front of just 336 fans, Kowalik led the Mustangs to a 4-1 win netting two goals

in the process. With the low attendance, Kowalik may have felt he was back

training in Florida, only this time the goals counted. In his second NASL

appearance, Kowalik scored another two goals in a 3-3 controversial draw

against the Boston Beacons. The Mustangs protested the result claiming that

Boston fielded two ineligible players including the scorer of the game-tying

goal, Tony Gulin. The protests proved futile, though as Kowalik’s four goals in

two games garnered significant attention from the Chicago press.

The

Pole quickly became the face of the franchise, earning the nickname the Blond

Bullet in the process. Just a week after the Boston game, Chicago’s

African-American newspaper, The Chicago

Daily Defender even did a profile on the Pole. The paper mentioned

Kowalik’s name alongside the city’s leading athletes of the day including the

legendary Bears running back Gale Sayers and one of the most celebrated Cubs of

all-time, Ernie Banks. The Defender

proclaimed that Kowalik as the man who was going to make professional soccer a

popular sport in the Windy City.

Kowalik

proved worthy of the admiration. After dropping their first two games without

Kowalik, the Mustangs went on a sixteen game unbeaten streak with the Pole in

the lineup. Following the draw with Boston, Chicago tied Vancouver 1-1, though

Kowalik failed to score. However, he proved a lifesaver

in Chicago’s next game netting the game-tying goal in the dying seconds of a

1-1 draw against the St. Louis Stars. Jan followed up his game-tying heroics

the following game with an incredible four-goal performance in a 6-1 victory

over the Dallas Tornado on May 17. Kowalik continued to rack up goals as the

Mustangs extended their unbeaten streak into the summer. His only challenge

throughout the season for the league’s scoring crown came from the San Diego

Toros forward Cirillo “Pepe” Fernandez, who would nearly match Kowalik goal for

goal and assist for assist by the end of the season. By the beginning of July,

Kowalik was on his way to being named to the NASL All-Star team and the

Mustangs were the hottest team in the league, though their status among the

league’s elite soon changed.

The

New York Generals, fresh off an exhibition win over Pele and the Santos eleven,

handed the Mustangs their first loss since the Chicago club’s second game of

the season, sans Kowalik. The loss proved to be the first in a series of losses

for the Mustangs. For all of Kowalik’s goals and the club’s unbeaten streak,

Chicago dropped its next four games jeopardizing the club’s chances for a spot

in the NASL playoffs. Within this series of losses, the Mustangs played perhaps

the most interesting game of the season on July 19, when Chicago faced the

formidable Gornik Zabrze of Poland at Hanson Field. It was Kowalik’s first game

against Polish competition since his defection. One can only imagine the

conversations between the Miners players and Kowalik while they were on the

field. Jan, no matter who the opponent, continued to score at will, netting

both of Chicago’s goals as the Mustangs fell to Gornik 3-2.

Courtesy of www.nasljerseys.com

Despite

the club’s hot start and its lengthy unbeaten streak, Chicago’s losing streak

proved too much for the Mustangs to overcome. Chicago’s fourth consecutive loss

came at the hands of Cleveland as the two teams entered the game tied for the

division lead. The Stokers defeated the Mustangs 4-1 on July 30, taking sole

possession of the Lakes Division lead. Kowalik again provided Chicago’s only

goal, but left the game with a possible concussion. This injury resulted in the

Pole missing the next game. Though the Mustangs were quickly falling out of

playoff contention, Kowalik still led the league in points scored. The NASL

counted each goal as two points, and rewarded one point for each assist. At the

time of his injury, Kowalik led the league in points with a score of fifty-five

points netting twenty-five goals and dishing out five assists. Pepe Fernandez

trailed Kowalik with twenty-two goals and three assists, giving the Toros

forward forty-seven points. The rest of the season proved an uphill battle for

the Mustangs as the club unsuccessfully chased Cleveland for the division title

and a spot in the NASL playoffs loss.

The

loss against Cleveland proved to be the last chance that the Mustangs had at

winning their division. Following the loss, the Mustangs never seemed to find

their early season form and alternated between winning and losing the rest of

its games, never threatening the Stokers position atop the Lakes Division.

Ironically, Kowalik’s thirtieth and final goal came in a 2-1 loss to Cleveland on

September 4, 1968 that mathematically eliminated the Mustangs from the playoffs

and all but sounded the death knell for the Mustangs franchise. Chicago’s final

game against the Detroit proved to be the last the Mustangs would play as the

team, as well as the league, struggled to attract fans all season.

The

highlight of the season, of course, was Kowalik. Despite the club failing to

make the playoffs, Kowalik won the league scoring title and captured the

league’s first MVP award, earning a new Volkswagen in the process (unfortunately

the model of the car was not specified). Kowalik finished the season with

thirty goals and nine assists giving the Pole sixty-nine total points.

Fernandez, competing with Kowalik for the title throughout the season, finished

second in points with sixty-seven points with thirty goals and seven assists.

The thirty goals by both players set a league record that lasted for a decade,

as the league nearly collapsed following the 1968 season.

Sparta Rotterdam 1970-71

Courtesy of http://thevintagefootballclub.blogspot.com

Due

to the league’s abysmal attendance figures, many of the club owners bled money

throughout the season. The NASL failed to attract enough fans for the owners to

break even, and one by one the clubs began to abandon the league. By the end of

1968, twelve of the seventeen teams ceased to exist, while the Chicago Mustangs

decided to join Chicago’s amateur National Soccer League. Kowalik, coming off

of his superb season, was forced to play elsewhere. He eventually signed with

the Oakland Clippers, joining Pepe Fernandez. Following the 1968 season, the

club changed their name to the California Clippers and declined to partake in

the 1969 NASL season. Instead, the Clippers decided to play only international

exhibitions hosting the likes of Dynamo Kiev, Fiorentina, and West Bromich

Albion, among others. The Clippers international experiment lasted a few months

before the club folded in the summer of 1969, leaving Kowalik without a club

once again. This time Kowalik was a free agent and was free to sign with any club without approval from Polish entities. From California, Kowalik signed

with Sparta Rotterdam of the Netherlands. The Pole spent several seasons in the

Eridivisie— the Dutch First Division—competing against Johann Cruyff for the league’s

golden boot, though he had not played his last game in the NASL.

Kowalik

returned to the U.S. and the NASL in the summer of 1976. He signed with the

Chicago Sting and had a decent season scoring nine goals. Kowalik also played

alongside Pele for Team America during the Bicentennial Cup, which was an

international series to celebrate America’s bicentennial. Team America lost each

of its games against the national teams of Italy, Brazil, and England.

Following the end of the NASL season Kowalik returned to Holland only to return

for one last campaign with the Sting a year later.

Though he went on to have a

very successful career in the Netherlands—and eventually returned to the NASL—

none of Kowalik’s NASL accomplishments ever compared to his record setting 1968

season. Although most soccer fans acknowledge Kowalik for scoring a league

record thirty goals and capturing the first NASL MVP, it is his

journey from the fields of Krakow to his eventual NASL debut that makes his

story all the more impressive.

Kowalik and Team America, 1976

Courtesy of www.nasljerseys.com

I relied on numerous primary and secondary sources to write this article. As always I consulted numerous articles from The Baltimore Sun, The Chicago Defender, The Chicago Tribune, The Los Angeles Tmes, The Sarasota Journal, and The Washington Post. In addition to newspapers, I referenced the American Soccer History Archives, a wonderful interview with Kowalik in Dziennik Polski, www.footballdatabase.eu, http://www.rsssf.com/, http://www.aaceagles.org/, and Vadim Furmanov's incredible piece on the 1967 Mustangs. Many thanks to all who helped me throughout the process, including Vadim. You can give his blog a follow here, and follow him on twitter here.
