Note: Due to the use of term association football during the late 19th century and the subsequent rise of the term soccer to refer to the same game thereafter, I use the terms football and soccer interchangeably within this article.

Additionally, this is not a definitive biography of Dennis Shay. As more and more sources from the late 19th century are digitized and available online, a greater overall understanding of his career, and that of his peers, will certainly emerge.

America's First Famous Goalkeeper

The lineage of American goalkeepers is a storied one. From

Olaff to Borghi, Keller to Howard, the list of prolific American goalkeepers

who have made their mark on the history of the game is a lengthy one. The

goalkeeper position is truly the only position that America produces

consistently that draws unquestionable respect and recognition internationally.

As the U.S. Men’s National Team attempt to qualify for the

2018 World Cup, fans continue to speculate who will succeed Tim Howard and

become the next great American goalkeeper. While fans debate and a number of

keepers vie for the chance to become the next great American between the posts,

it is worth looking back at a forgotten goalkeeper who may be considered the

patriarch of America’s distinguished goalkeeping lineage, Dennis “Denny” Shay.

Beginnings

Source: The National Police Gazette, 11-10-1894

Much like his noteworthy but overlooked footballing career,

nearly all information relating to Dennis Shay’s early life is lost to history

and forgotten. Even the date of his birth is not truly known, though the 1940

U.S. Census denotes Shay’s birth year as “around 1870.” Whether in 1869 or

1870, Dennis Shay was born in Hancock, Michigan to John Henry Shay and Mary Sullivan,

Irish immigrants who would soon settle the family in Bristol County, Massachusetts.

The family left the Upper Peninsula likely looking for greater economic fortune

in the booming textile industry in towns like Fall River and New Bedford. The

move eventually proved fortuitous for Dennis, as it was the family’s relocation

to Massachusetts that exposed him to the game at a young age and provided him

with an avenue to play the game at its highest level in the country.

During the 1880s, when Denny was developing an affinity and

knack for the game, the game grew in popularity throughout the Northeast. Mill

towns throughout Massachusetts, burgeoning with British, Irish, and Scottish

immigrants, spearheaded the growth in the game’s popularity. Citizens of these

mill towns formed clubs at an incredible rate during the 1880s, Fall River alone

housed over twelve clubs in 1886. To govern the growing multitude of clubs and

leagues popping up across the Northeast, a group of British expatriates founded

the American Football Association in 1884 and established the American Cup, the

first national soccer championship in the United States, the following year. It

was within this atmosphere that Shay found himself exposed to the game.

Shay likely began playing the game with other children on

the streets of Bristol County. By his teenage years, Shay’s talents proved

worthy enough for a spot on the Oak Grove Rangers. The Rangers, described in

1894 by The Brooklyn Daily Eagle as

“a sort of kindergarten club for the association clubs”, competed in a junior

league, or second class league, a level below the Bristol County Football

Association, which housed Fall River clubs, the East Ends, Rovers, and

Olympics, among others clubs from towns throughout Bristol County,

Massachusetts. Statistics for the junior league are near nonexistent, however, Shay’s

ability in goal must have been apparent to all of the senior league clubs because

by the time he turned eighteen he was playing with arguably the best team in

the county, the Fall River Rovers.

The Rise of the

Rovers

Source: The Boston Globe, 4-21-1889

Shay’s career cannot be discussed without mention of the

Rovers. Without the Fall River club, Shay may never have achieved on-field

success and become the first great American goalkeeper. By the time Shay suited

up for the club in late 1887, or early 1888, the Rovers were American Cup

Champions and considered one of the best teams in the country.

Isaac Buckley, Thomas Buckley, Thomas Burke, and James Marsh

founded the Rovers in February 1884. The men named the club the Chance Street

Rovers after English club Blackburn Rovers with the intention of defeating Fall

River’s best club, the East Ends. It did not take long for the newly formed

Rovers to overcome the East Ends and rise to prominence within the city, as the

club finished the 1884-85 season, their first in the Fall River Football

Association, as one of the best in Fall River. Prior to the start of the

1885-86 season, The Fall River Football Association became the Bristol County

Football Association (BCFA). The name of the league meant little to the rising

juggernaut Rovers as the club became a force regionally, earning enough money

to build their own ground by the fall of 1887.

When the Rovers opened their ground on September 5, 1887,

they were known as the Fall River Rovers, no doubt due to the club’s rising

status regionally – Chance Street likely not carrying as much weight in towns

across the region. Although the club was becoming one of the best in the area,

winning the Bristol County Cup in 1885 and 1886, the club had yet to attain the

status of the elite by capturing the American Cup. The 3-time American Cup

champion, Clark Our New Thread (ONT) team was the true measuring stick of

greatness during this time and all league titles paled in comparison to the

nascent “national” American Cup title.

The Rovers were intent on becoming one of the country’s elite

clubs, but first the club had to ready their home ground for the 1887-1888

campaign. Had it not been for the help of the club’s players the Rovers opening

day game may not have happened on their new field. The Fall River Herald News summed up the club’s ground construction situation

perfectly, “It was a big job to get the field in condition for the opening and

despite the fact that many players worked many weeks in their spare time on the

grounds, they were on the job from 5 a.m. until close to game time on opening

day.”

Despite the troubles in readying the club’s grounds for the

opening game of the season, the Rovers truly became one of the country’s premier

clubs during the 1887-88 campaign. The club continued to show well in BCFA play,

but the club, eying a bigger prize, opted to enter the American Cup - 1888

being the first year that New England teams entered the tournament - with the

intention of becoming the best club in the country.

In the first round of the tournament, the Rovers met their cross-town

nemesis, the East Ends. The Rovers, nearing the apex of their strength as a

club, dispatched their rivals easily by a score of 3-1. The Rovers repeated the

feat in the second round, soundly defeating the Pawtucket Free Wanderers 3-0.

Despite throwing Jack Mullen, a new goalkeeper, between the posts, the Fall

River club continued its dominance in the semifinals. The Rovers trounced the

visiting Kearny Rangers 6-1 in front of several thousand of their home fans.

The victory left supporters of the Rovers, “confident that it [the Rovers] will

win the championship and the cup. Consequently, there is great rejoicing among

local football enthusiasts.”

Riding a string of blowout victories in the tournament, the

Rovers entered the American Cup Final against Newark Almas with Mullen still in

goal. The game took place on the grounds of Clark ONT in New Jersey on April

14, 1888. Taking place in NJ, the game appeared to be a home game for Almas,

but, to the Rovers, the venue was irrelevant. The outcome of the game mirrored

the results of the tournament’s previous rounds and ended with a Rovers 5-1

blowout victory over Almas.

With the help of the telegraph, news of the victory spread

quickly. The citizens of Fall River were ecstatic with the result. Some people called

the day the Rovers won the title “the greatest day in the annals of football in

Fall River.” Praise for the Rovers victory did not end there as the city hung

two banners, one stating “Welcome home, champions of America.” In addition to the

banners and a planned procession through the town, the city also held a dinner

and concert in honor of the American Cup champions. The Fall River Daily Herald summed up the city’s excitement for the

occasion best, “They have crowned themselves with glory in winning the

championship of America, and well deserve the reception and illumination.” The

club had attained the status of the elite. The signing of Shay signaled the

club was intent on maintaining their class distinction for many years to come.

Shay Joins the Rovers,

Becomes Champion

Source: The Fall River Daily Herald, 4-16-1888

It was during this period, following the quick ascension of

the Rovers as the country’s best, that Shay became a fixture at the club. At

just eighteen years old, Shay entered the first team of the Rovers. The young

Oak Grove product did not immediately supplant Mullen in goal, but Shay did

find first team minutes almost immediately after joining the club when he

played center forward for the Rovers in an exhibition game against Boston

Rovers just a few weeks before the Fall River club won the title. Ultimately, Shay’s

days at forward did not last; he was starting between the posts by the start of

the fall of 1888. Once firmly entrenched in the starting eleven, Shay did not

look back. He became a permanent fixture between the posts for the Rovers for

the next three years and cemented his reputation as one of, if not the best,

goalkeeper in the nation by the time he left the club.

Though still holding the BCFA league in high esteem, the

Rovers, with Shay in goal, entered the 1888-89 season intent on repeating as

national champions. In addition to Shay, the club brought in two players from

Almas, Bernard “Barney” Fagan – Scottish Cup winner with Hibernian F.C. in

1886-87 - and Frank Cornell, to bolster the already strong side. The club, as

it had for the past few years, continued to show well in the local league, but

truly shined on the national stage with this influx of talent, easily

maintaining their status as the country’s premier club.

With Shay between the posts and the twenty-one-year-old

veteran Fagan assuming the role of club captain, the Fall River Rovers made

easy work of their opponents in the first two rounds of the 1888-89 edition of

the American Cup. The club faced off against the Rhode Island champion

Pawtucket Free Wanderers in the tournament’s third round. The match proved to

be quite the affair.

Shay and the Rovers journeyed to Pawtucket for the match.

Throngs of people attempted to attend the highly anticipated matchup. According

to The Fall River Daily Herald, “so dense was

the gathering that tickets could not be supplied to those who wished to gain

admittance before the game began, and the result was that the cheering of those

inside the grounds so inspired those outside that they broke in the large

double gate and went rushing into the ground without paying an entrance fee.” The

Rovers routinely drew in fans by the thousands throughout this period no matter

the competition.

Despite being defending champions, the Rovers were seen as

the underdog due to the Rovers player’s stature, Shay stood only 5’ 8 1/2'’. In

spite of their lot as underdogs, the Fall River club quickly proved they were

the superior team. Just minutes after kickoff the Rovers proved their mettle

with one reporter remarking, “it would need no experienced eye to see that they

[Rovers] were the superior team…. what they lacked in weight, they made up with

in science.”

Using their superior tactics, the Rovers narrowly defeated the

Rhode Island champions, 2-1, though the game was never in much doubt. The

Rovers scored the first goal of the game just minutes after the opening whistle

and the Fall River club never looked like losing, heading into halftime up 2-0.

The Wanderers were able to score in the second period, but it was for naught as

they conceded their first game at home to the defending champion Rovers.

The rest of the American Cup tournament went smoothly for

the Rovers. Their opponents in the semi-final, the 3-time American Cup

champions, Clark ONT, were embarrassed by the Rovers in front of 3,000 fans in

Fall River, 7-0. The result showed the superiority of the Rovers and gave the

fans and media every reason to believe that the Fall River club would repeat as

champions. In order to win the title, the Rover’s opponents, Newark

Caledonians, had to “play the strongest game of their lives.”

The Caledonians did not play the game of their lives. In

fact, the Final, once again held on the Clark ONT grounds in New Jersey, proved

to be another easy game for the best club in the country, the Rovers. On April

13, 1889, the Rovers easily won the 1888-89 American Cup Final 4-0. The result

was another clean sheet for Shay and a second American Cup title for the

Rovers. Over the course of the Rovers five games in the tournament, Shay only

conceded one goal, and the club held a goal differential of 24 to 1.

Source: The Fall River Daily Herald, 4-15-1889

Fall River once again feted the national champions,

welcoming the team home with fireworks and a brass band. The Rovers were repeat

champions and unquestionably the best team in the country.

Following their victory in the 1888-89 American Cup, the

Fall River Rovers, with Shay between the posts, continued to prove that they

were America’s elite, taking on clubs from across New England and the East

Coast. The club continued to be a huge draw as well, with over 2,500 fans

showing up to the Rover’s home ground to see the champions take on a New Jersey

All-Star team a little over a week after the American Cup Final. The Rovers

distinguished play proved to be must see to everyone, including women, as The Fall River Daily Herald noted, “the female

admirers of the exhilarating game formed a good part of the large crowd of

spectators, and were the most enthusiastic at that.”

Shortly after the American Cup victory, the Rovers were

rumored to be making plans to sail to England to take on Aston Villa, Preston

North End, and other English clubs. The England tour never quite got off the

ground, but the Rovers were unquestionably the best team in the country and

their young goalkeeper, Dennis Shay, was quickly cementing his place as the

first great American goalkeeper.

Shay in Britain

Shay continued to man the goal, with cameos as an outfield

player, for the Rovers until the summer of 1891. By that time, Shay had

established himself as one of the best, if not the best goalkeeper in the

country, and his ability caught the eye of individuals associated with a

planned Canadian soccer tour of the British Isles. Initially, the tour was

intended to mimic an 1888 tour and be made up entirely of Canadian players from

the Western Football Association, but complications arose with the tour’s plans

and the tour’s management invited Shay and several other American players to

participate in the tour.

The tour ran from August 1891 to January 1892. The joint

Canadian-American team competed in 58

games in just 135 days. Shay appeared in

goal for 47 of those 58 games, playing in games against some of the best teams

in England in Burnley and Preston North End.

Although the tour is not looked at as a success historically

– the Canadian-American team lost 30 of the 58 games - the tour was a positive

experience for many of the players, including Shay. In fact, Shay’s ability in

goal throughout the tour elicited praise from English newspapers despite the

Canadian-American’s collective on-field performances. Shay’s play even saw him

carried off the field after one match and merited the American goalkeeper

several offers from English clubs. Shay, who said “he could have held his own

against the goalies of Great Britain,” ultimately turned down the offers, and

the chance to become the first non-British player to play in England’s Football

League, – that honor belongs to his Canadian teammate Walter Bowman – and returned

to Fall River.

Once back in the United States, Shay suited up for a team in

Pawtucket, Rhode Island before returning to the Rovers in 1893, the same year

that he married his wife, Catherine Neary.

By that time, with the numerous championship medals he had earned and the

British tour under his belt, Shay was widely considered the best in America at

the goalkeeper position. When it came to soccer, newspapers across the

Northeast, then the nexus of the American soccer world, were espousing praise

of Shay’s exploits and proclaiming the young goalkeeper the best in the country

at his position. Soon Shay would be one of the game’s greatest professionals,

even if only for a very brief time.

Shay, the

Professional

Source: The Brooklyn Eagle, 10-15-1894

Soccer, like nearly all sports in America, was still an amateur

affair in the early 1890s. Baseball provided America with the only professional

sport in the country and dominated the summer months, but it wouldn’t be the

only sport played professionally for long after the growing popularity of

soccer, played during the winter months, caught the eye of baseball’s most

entrepreneurial owners.

Several baseball magnates saw the game as the perfect sport

to fill their stadiums during baseball’s offseason. The way the baseball owners

intended to do this was to make soccer a professional sport under their

auspices, which is exactly what six National League owners did during the

summer of 1894 when they created America’s first professional soccer league,

The American League of Professional Football (ALPF).

As early as February 1894, the owners of the Baltimore,

Boston, Brooklyn, New York, Philadelphia, and Washington, D.C. baseball club’s began

entertaining the idea of a creating a professional soccer league. By the

summer, plans for the ALPF were starting to fall into place, and the owners

formally created the league on August 14, 1894.

The league was doomed from the onset, as the owners failed

to set a concrete schedule and sought to include their baseball players and

managers in the teams. Ultimately, the scheme was little more than an attempt

by the owners to maintain a stranglehold on the professional sports landscape

and little effort was made to ensure the success of the professional league. In

a mere six weeks, the ALPF ceased to exist, but that small window afforded many

people in cities across the East Coast the chance to read about and see the

greatest goalkeeper in the country.

Shay was highly respected by the time the National League

owners created the ALPF. The former Fall River Rovers goalkeeper was referred

to as the “best goal tender in the country” in more than one publication prior

to the cessation of the league. Shay’s ability and knowledge of the game were

so highly respected that the owner of the Brooklyn Bridegrooms Baseball Club,

Charles Byrne, made Shay the player/manager of the Brooklyn Football Club -

Shay was the only American with a background in the sport to be made manager

of any of the ALPF clubs.

Source: The Brooklyn Eagle, 10-7-1894

Once signed by Byrne, Shay set about signing the best

players from Fall River, including several men from the Rovers, namely Bernard

Fagan. The Brooklyn side became a de facto Fall River team playing in the ALPF

– several other players from the Spindle City latched on to the Boston club as

well. Shay’s signings, coupled with his play in goal, earned the Brooklyn club

the most wins in the doomed league with five. The club experienced a single

loss, the league opener to Boston, during the six weeks that the ALPF existed.

That loss gave the Baltimore team, a side made up of a number of British

professionals who were a perfect 4-0 in ALPF play, reason enough to declare

themselves champions of the ALPF. Shay and his men did not take kindly to

Baltimore’s claims, and the Brooklyn club challenged the Charm City eleven to a

six-game series to decide the true champions of the league and country. With

Shay in goal, the Brooklyn men proved their superiority before the series

dissolved as brusquely as the ALPF. It proved to be the swansong for Shay’s

goalkeeping career.

Retirement from

Football

Following the demise of the ALPF, Shay abruptly retired from

playing soccer at the age of twenty-four. Although the reasons for his

retirement are unknown, his place as the first great American goalkeeper is

certainly up for debate. The former Fall River Rovers man had accumulated a

litany of awards and trophies by the time he signed with Brooklyn of the ALPF.

According to The Brooklyn Eagle, who

proclaimed Shay the best goalkeeper in the country, Shay had won eleven medals

by the time he joined Brooklyn. That is an impressive haul for a man who played

the game at its highest level for only six years. The fact that he was

entrusted to run a professional club at such a young age undoubtedly shows that

Shay was a well-respected figure within the game.

After his retirement, Shay became involved in the liquor

business, a career he would be involved in for the rest of his life. By 1896,

Shay operated a saloon in Fall River with his brother, Timothy, called Shay

Brothers. The bar remained in operation

for a number of years, though it not clear how long Dennis was involved in the

venture. That same year, Shay’s exploits as a goalkeeper made the news again,

though it was not on the soccer field, rather Shay had taken up roller polo

(roller hockey) and was minding the net for an amateur side in Fall River. He

was said to be “showing up strongly.” Though retired from soccer, Shay, already

the best soccer goalie in America, obviously still had the itch to compete.

Eventually, Shay settled with his wife in New Bedford,

Massachusetts. He appears to never have played a prominent role on the soccer

field ever again, though he continued to be involved in sports. In 1906, he and

two other men purchased the New Bedford Whalers Baseball Club of the minor league

New England League. Shay’s involvement with the baseball club lasted just two

years. From that point on, Shay does not appear to have figured prominently

within sports in any aspect and spent the remainder of his life in New Bedford.

He died in 1950. His exploits during his brief soccer career were so great that

they were worthy of a mention in his obituary in The New York Times.

Fall River would continue to produce soccer players and

clubs of renowned quality throughout the early half of the 20th

century. Many of the feats accomplished by the Rovers and Marksmen came to

overshadow those of Shay and the original Fall River Rovers, but that does not

mean that the first prominent American goalkeeper feats, and those of his club

teams, are insignificant. The truth is quite the opposite.

Even without any statistics, Shay’s feats as a goalkeeper

were remarkable for the era he played in. After playing just six years at the

highest level, Shay had accrued enough medals and plaudits to be considered by

many at the time to be the greatest goalkeeper in the country. Regardless of

the feats of other goalkeepers of the period, Shay’s fame alone, undoubtedly

bolstered by his performances in Britain, cements him as the first great

American goalkeeper and the patriarch of the celebrated American goalkeeping lineage.

In a period dominated by baseball, Shay was able to garner enough attention

outside of Fall River to be considered the best in the nation, and the fact

that he did it in six years gives further credence to his ability in goal. The

mention of his feats at the time of his death, over sixty years after Shay made

headlines playing the game, only goes to prove that Shay, though forgotten by

modern soccer fans, was indeed the first truly exception American goalkeeper.

The next time you see Tim Howard play, or reminisce on the

career of Kasey Keller, remember that Dennis Shay was the first significant

goalkeeper in American soccer history and the first goalkeeper to test himself

in the nation of the game’s birth.

Sources:

In writing this article, I relied on a number of primary and secondary sources and help from others. I could not have written this article without the help of Brian Bunk, the creator of the Soccer History USA Podcast, who was very generous with his time and aiding in tracking down several period newspaper articles. Ed Farnsworth, Chris Goodwin, and the reference librarians at The Fall River Public Library were also a huge help in giving their time and sharing source material. With the help of those stated above, I consulted the following sources: The Baltimore Sun, The Brooklyn Eagle, The Fall River Daily Herald, The Fall River Herald News, The Washington Post, Colin Jose's article covering the 1891 Canadian-American tour of the UK, Ed Farnsworth's post concerning Philadelphia's ALPF History, Steve Holroyd's History of the ALPF, www.baseballreference.com, the American Soccer History Archives, and several other secondary sources.
