Real Madrid Crest 1920s

Source: http://www.leyendablanca.galeon.com/

Note: Since I only refer to American football in the introductory paragraph, I use the terms football and soccer interchangeably thereafter to refer to the beautiful game.

Over the course of the last fifteen years, Real Madrid has been one of the best clubs in the world, and, undoubtedly, an American favorite. They feature one of the worlds

most skilled and feared players in the world in Cristiano Ronaldo, and are set

to meet Atletico Madrid in the Champions League Final in a matter of weeks. In

the United States, it is not uncommon to find a Bale or Ronaldo jersey at a local

field any day of the week, stressing American's admiration of both players and

Los Blancos. Following the World Cup, Real will make their sixteenth appearance

in the United States in the second edition of the Guinness International

Champions Cup satiating many American's hunger to witness their favorite club.

Real’s feat of selling out 100,000-plus seat Michigan Stadium – home of the

University of Michigan Football team – against Manchester United during this year's Guinness International Champions Cup attests to their popularity.

What many American fans fail to realize is that Real

Madrid first visited the United States long before they were an attraction

within Spain, let alone the Galacticos that have dominated world football. In

an effort to “promote Spanish football” in North and South America, the Castilian club first visited the United

States during the “golden age” of American Soccer in September 1927. Despite

interest from around the country to host the Spaniards, Real only featured in

one game in the United States. Originally scheduled to meet the American Soccer

League’s Brooklyn Wanderers, Real eventually sparred with an unlikely

challenger in fellow Spanish compatriots Galicia FC (GFC), a New York City

amateur club with lofty ambitions.

Nat

Agar: Purveyor of International Competition

In 1927, soccer was at the peak of its popularity in

the United States despite growing tensions between the United States Football

Association (USFA) and the American Soccer League (ASL). Though the nucleus of

the game was still the Northeast, the game flourished in city leagues throughout

the country, with the cities of Chicago and St. Louis at the fore. Highlighting the popularity of the game, the city of New York had a copious amount of clubs

at various levels from amateur sides to professional clubs, including three in

the ASL: the New York Giants, Indiana Flooring, and the Brooklyn Wanderers.

Within its legion of clubs, New York was home to many ethnic clubs that

competed in the city’s International Soccer League (ISL), chief among them the Spanish club

Galicia FC (GFC).

In addition to the growing amount of clubs and

leagues within the country, the United States was also a budding destination

for foreign clubs during their offseason. In 1927 four

clubs in addition to Real – Hakoah Vienna (Czechoslovakia), Maccabi Tel Aviv (Palestine),

Nacional (Uruguay), and Worchestershire (England) - visited America in 1927 playing

in games from New York to Chicago. Though most of the visiting clubs tended to

play ASL clubs or city all-star teams, a few amateur clubs, like GFC, also made

it on the visitors schedules. Galicia’s meeting with Real Madrid came down to

the decision of one man, Nathan “Nat” Agar, owner of the Brooklyn Wanderers of the ASL.

Source: The Brooklyn Eagle

Nat Agar was quite a force with American soccer

circles in 1927. In addition to owning the Wanderers, he was an official in the

New York State Football Association, and the President of the New York's International Soccer League. The Brooklyn Eagle liked to refer to Agar as

one of the games magnates. After all, Agar helped catapult the sport into national consciousness when he brought Hakoah Vienna of Czechoslovakia to the United States for a

series of games in 1926 – they drew 46,000 fans to their fourth game of their tour setting a

record for soccer attendance in the US that would not be broken for fifty years when Pele joined the New York Cosmos. In addition to convincing Hakoah to return in

1927, Agar was instrumental in bringing over Club Nacional of Uruguay, Maccabi

FC of Tel Aviv, Palestine, and Real Madrid, spending a hefty sum in the

process.

Of the teams Agar brought to the United States in

1927, Real Madrid’s visit was the least exciting from a public relations perspective,

which was understandable due to Real’s relative anonymity outside of Spain at

the time – the creation of La Liga, Spain’s professional league, was still two

years away. The media extensively covered each club’s visit, save for Real’s,

but the visiting Uruguayans really stood out amongst the visitors for two

reasons First, the press erroneously referred to Nacional as the Uruguayan

Olympic team throughout their visit because Nacional consisted of many members of

Uruguay’s 1924 gold medal winning Olympic team. The erroneous reports bolstered

Nacional’s profile considerably throughout their stay making them the club that set the standard for the visiting clubs that followed. Second, among Nacional’s Olympians was

defensive midfielder Jose Leandro Andrade the first black footballer to play in

the Olympics. By competing against ASL clubs, Andrade became one of the first

black soccer players to compete at the professional level in the United States.

1924 Uruguayan Football Team

Andrade is sixth from the left, top row

Between April 30 and May 30, Andrade and Nacional

eventually played thirteen games in the US with three games taking place at

Ebbet’s Field in New York against Agar’s Wanderers. The three games against the

Wanderers drew over 35,000 fans collectively, which may have spurred Agar’s

interest in staging games between touring clubs and Brooklyn clubs to attract

more fans, and ultimately ensure further profits stemming from his investment. After all, Agar

was the man bringing the foreign clubs to the US, and in the end, GFC

benefitted from Agar’s position as ISL President and from his inclusion of non-ASL

clubs on touring calendars.

Galicia

FC’s Rise

Concrete origins of Galicia FC are hard to come by. Galicians

founded Galicia Sporting Club (GSC) in 1922 or 1923, and fielded a soccer team upon

the club’s formation. Given the popularity of the game within America’s ethnic

communities, GFC formed the backbone of the club almost immediately

after GSC’s inception. The club lost in the final of the first edition of the Everlast Cup - a

soccer tournament limited to Spanish teams within New York City - in 1923, which proved to be the nadir of the clubs fortunes, as GFC

soon became a powerhouse within New York City’s amateur leagues. They won the

Everlast Cup the following year, entered the US Open Cup tournament, and

captured the Southern New York State Football Association Cup in the spring of

1926. Adding to the list of the club’s growing accomplishments, GFC also went undefeated

within New York City’s (ISL) during the 1925-26 season.

AC Sparta Praha 1922

Perner at center, top row

Source: http://www.sparta.cz/cs/klub/historie/ac-sparta-praha.shtml#a4

Needless to say, the

club earned the right to face more challenging competition by the fall of

1926.

GFC finally gained an opportunity to compete against

better competition on November 1, 1926 when they met reigning Czechoslovakian

champions AC Sparta Praha at David’s Stadium Field in Newark, NJ. The game was the

last of a two-month long, sixteen game tour for the Bohemian club that produced

many fights and the suspension of club captain Antonin Perner by the USFA.

Whether Sparta’s loss of their captain or the length or their tour affected

them cannot be known, but Galicia FC was able to earn a 1-1 draw against the

Czechoslovak champions. Sparta’s tally was due to a Galicia FC own goal.

The positive result heavily contributed to the Spanish club’s future fixtures

and eventually helped net the club a meeting with Real Madrid.

With their sudden ascent from newly formed Spanish

club to their draw with AC Sparta Praha, Galicia FC became a known quantity

amongst New York’s soccer leagues and a viable opponent for Nat Agar’s Brooklyn

Wanderers. Just weeks after the Galicians drew Sparta, Agar pitted the

Wanderers against GFC on December 5, 1926. Soon after, Agar started sending the

Wanderers second team to play against GFC. Agar even suited up

against GFC in a July 1927 exhibition contest. By the time, Agar faced GFC, the

Spaniards had already cemented their place within New York’s soccer circles,

and proved their ambition after the Galicia Sporting Club announced they would

host a dinner to honor Club Nacional. GFC’s success on the field and their growing

ambition – GSC reserved chartered a French steamship for a GFC tour of Spain

during the summer of 1928 with a $10000 (roughly $135,800 today) deposit in

August of 1927 - must have endeared the club to Agar as the club soon found

itself competing against the Wanderers on an active basis, and squaring off

against the likes of Maccabi FC and Real Madrid.

Spanish

Royalty Meet Their Countrymen

A young Bernabeu

Source: Real Madrid

Led by club President Luis de Urquijo and their

recently retired striker Santiago Bernabeu, Real Madrid embarked on an

extensive tour of the Americas during the summer of 1927. (Though it is unclear whether Santiago made the trip, he certainly supported expanding Real's influence.) At the time, Real was transitioning from an amateur to a professional club – again the

formation of the professional Spanish league, La Liga, was a couple of years

away. The common stated goal of the tour was to promote Spanish soccer within the

Americas, but aficionados within the United States, led by Spanish expatriates

undoubtedly, were well aware of Spanish clubs at least two years prior to their

New York visit. In fact, people within the USFA were interested in bringing

over a professional Spanish club as early as January 1926. The problem was that

at the time there were not any professional clubs within Spain and the Spanish Football

Association were apprehensive in sending over any clubs. Real Madrid’s visit,

though incredibly brief, undoubtedly satisfied some people within American

soccer’s desire to compete against a premier Spanish team.

Prior to arriving in New York in late September

1927, Real Madrid played several games against clubs from Buenos Aires, Havana,

Lima, and Mexico City. Sources differ on the amount of games played by Real

prior to their arrival in New York, but all sources agree that they won the bulk of their games during the tour. In addition to a game

in New York, the press reported that Real would meet with multiple clubs throughout the US as far west as Chicago. ASL clubs in New York and Boston sought games

with the Spaniards, but in the end, Real scheduled two games in the US upon their

departure from Mexico on September 17; Nat Agar’s Brooklyn Wanderers and

ISL champion Galicia FC – who were unquestionably included on Real’s schedule

due to Nat Agar. The reasons for Real’s lack of games within the US was not

documented, but the USFA’s and Spanish Football Association’s inability to

agree on the sanctioning of competitions against the United States professional clubs and Spain's amateur clubs may have played a

role in Real’s two scheduled fixtures in New York. Prior to leaving Mexico, the

Castilian club requested the USFA’s permission to compete against several other

clubs including Chicago’s AC Sparta, and the ASL’s Indiana Flooring, in addition

to the Brooklyn Wanderers. Eventually Real's two scheduled fixtures in New York dwindled to one as the club left Mexico. Real was scheduled to meet Agar's Wanderers, but that too would soon change.

Due to his influence within New York, Nat Agar was in charge of Real

Madrid’s US visit. Up until that point, he sponsored and scheduled every foreign

club’s visit to that point, and his stature within the American soccer scene

undoubtedly contributed in his ability to schedule his Wanderers against Real in

late September. Though the reasons for the constant changes in Real’s US

schedule are not entirely clear, it is apparent that Agar was determined to bring

the Spanish club to New York. In a surprisingly gallant gesture, Agar conceded

the Wanderers meeting with Real Madrid to the growing Spanish club GFC while

Real were in route to New York. The Galicia Sporting Club met the gesture with much appreciation and

an honorary dinner held at the Hotel Pennsylvania in honor of their visiting royal

guests. Interest in the game was high even though Real remained a relative

unknown quantity just days before the matchup. The only available indication of Real’s

talent appeared in The New York Times

just days before the game against GFC when the newspaper noted that Real had

eight internationals competing with the club. Unbeknownst to Americans at the

time, the Castilians brought several players from different Spanish club for

their American tour and one would score a goal during their stop in New York City. Despite the anonymity of the club and the constant uncertainty

surrounding their visit, the matchup between Real and GFC proved to be a

popular affair as a crowd of up to

10,000 fans was expected at Hawthorn Field for the all-Spanish fixture.

Patricio Escobal

Mr. Escobal featured for Los Blancos throughout the 1920s. He was jailed following the Spanish Civil War due to his loyalty to the Spanish crown. He eventually emigrated to the United States and wrote his memoirs about his time in a Spanish prison.

After weeks of speculation, Real Madrid finally

debuted on American soil meeting Galicia FC on September 24 in Brooklyn, New

York. In front of just around 5000 fans, including the Spanish Consul of New

York, Spanish international Patricio Escobal and future Real legend Jose Maria

Pena paced Madrid against the amateur GFC eleven. Perhaps exhausted due to the

length and uncertainty of their tour, Madrid found themselves on the receiving

end of GFC’s attack early in the first half. Galicia’s constant pressure

resulted in a goal in the fourteenth minute by inside-right Vega. GFC’s form

held true for the remainder of the first half, but the visiting Castilians finally

found their form and equalized seventeen minutes after the start of the second

half on a goal from guest player Travieso of Atletico Bilbao. The game finished

a 1-1 draw as GFC once again held their own against superior competition. The

star of the game, according to the New York newspapers, was Madrid winger Felix

Perez Marcos whose skill on the ball “frequently caused the crowd to burst

forth into enthusiastic applause.” In the end the game was a small affair

compared to the other foreign teams that invaded America in 1927 and was soon swallowed up by the action taking place within the ASL in New York's newspapers.

In the end, Real’s short visit allowed little time

for the club to make a lasting impression on the American public as Real sailed

for Spain the day after their encounter with GFC. Madrid did not to return to the United States

for another thirty-two years. Despite Real’s mediocre first US visit, the

American tour proved to be the first stroke of genius by Santiago Bernabeu who

would propel the club to unparalleled success after the Spanish Civil War as

President of the club until his death in 1978. In his lifetime, Bernabeu would

witness Real go from a small amateur team to European powerhouse. A club that

can claim millions of American fans today. Meanwhile, Nat Agar would continue to be a

significant fixture in American soccer for another year until he disappeared

from the game following his suspension by the USFA in 1928 during the country’s

“Soccer War.” Following their meeting with Real Madrid, GFC continued to grow. The Galician club’s ambition knew no bounds

following their royal encounter. By the end of 1927, Galicia Sporting Club

spent well over $100,000 (over $1.3 Million today) on a building at 109-111

East Fifteenth Street in Manhattan to serve as a clubhouse for the burgeoning

Galician organization. GFC would continue to compete in New York’s amateur

leagues for another twenty years before combining with Brookhattan FC to

compete in the second edition of the ASL.

This article has also been featured on: http://inbedwithmaradona.com

In writing this article, I relied on a bevy of sources and the wonders of Google translate. My primary sources consisted of The Boston Globe, The Brooklyn Eagle, The Chicago Defender, The New York Amsterdam News, The New York Times, and The Washington Post. In addition to newspapers, I consulted numerous secondary sources including: Howler Magazine, the incredible Real Madrid archival website http://www.leyendablanca.galeon.com/, Roger Allaway's profile on Nat Agar, Sports Illustrated, Duke University's profile of Jose Leandro Andrade, Real Madrid's online coverage of the club's history, and, as always, the American Soccer History Archives. Also, thank you to Brian Bunk for helping correct some of the discrepancies within the article.
