In the first post of this three-part series, I

introduce the American League of Professional Football, covering its formation,

rules, and participating cities. The Washington Senators also feature

extensively in this initial post. This by no means is a complete history of the league or any of its

clubs, but more of an introduction to America’s first professional soccer

league.

When most people think of professional soccer in the

United States, they usually think of Major League Soccer and, inevitably, the

North American Soccer League (NASL). Granted professional soccer in America has

a checkered, albeit storied, history. Americans have played the game almost as

long as they have baseball and it would be naïve to think that the NASL was the

first professional league to kick the ball on American soil. The first

professional soccer league, in fact, dates back to the 19th century, preceding

the formation of professional basketball, football, and hockey leagues. In

1894, a group of baseball owners, looking to create a professional sports league for the winter months,

created the nation’s first professional soccer league, the American League of

Professional Football.

The

ALPF and its Origins

1895 Washington Senators Baseball Club

During the last decade of the 19th

century, a vacuum in sports entertainment existed. Professionalism among

athletes was in its nascent stages. Baseball fielded the only professional

sports league in the country and held a monopoly on the summer months. College

football held court in the fall months, but was considered non-professional and embroiled

in a debate over the violence inherent in the game. Sure, Americans played other sports during the

winter and several amateur sports leagues existed, but by 1894 only baseball existed

at the professional level. By creating

the American League of Professional Football (ALPF), the owners of several

National League baseball clubs sought to fill this winter void, fill their vacant

stadiums, line thier pockets, and maintain their stranglehold

on the growing sports landscape.

The formation of the ALPF grew out of a series of

meetings between the owners of six baseball clubs in the National League that

began as early as February 1894. The idea of a professional soccer league

managed by the National League owners came up during the league’s annual

meeting in February and plans continued well after. A preliminary meeting took

place on 19 June 1894. During this meeting, the owners announced they would

create a professional soccer league starting in the fall of 1894. The owners

agreed signed a three-year partnership agreement, as well as, a guarantee fund stating,

“any club that refused to play, or finish a game, would forfeit $500.” In

addition, the owners announced a vague schedule that would run from the

beginning of October until the start of the New Year. The owners named

Arthur Irwin, the Philadelphia Phillies owner, interim president. Joining

Philadelphia in the league were the cities of Baltimore, Boston, Brooklyn, New

York, and Washington D.C. The respective owners were optimistic the league

would succeed, among them, Washington Senators owner Jacob Earl Wagner.

From the onset, both Irwin and Wagner sought to field a successful team. In

fact, both owners had a number of players already under contract by the meeting

in June. Over the course of the next month, it seemed clear that despite the natural

drawing power of the baseball players, the owners, fearing injuries, concluded

they would not field any of their baseball stars in the ALPF. Ultimately, some

baseball players would suit up for several of the soccer clubs, but they were in the minority. By the

beginning of August, still in the midst of baseball season, many of the clubs

had begun rounding up talent and forming their squads.

The baseball magnates formally created the ALPF on

August 14, 1894 at the Fifth Avenue Hotel in New York City. Irwin removed the

interim title from his name and became president of the newly formed league. The

new vendors of professional soccer, seeking to maintain their dominance within

the sporting world, drew up a constitution mirroring that of their baseball

league, which in effect gave them the utmost authority and left the players

powerless after they put pen to paper. The owners confirmed the October to

January schedule, ratified that the rules of the game, and set ticket prices at

.25 and .50 cents, which was on par with what the National League charged for its baseball games. The league’s rules would be

the same as those in England, save for a few minor tweaks, which, judging by

the newspaper articles available seemed to include substitutions, something

that was not allowed in the English League until the 1960s. In addition to the schedule

and rules, the league also adopted a set of rules for the clubs uniforms. The

home clubs were to wear a white uniform with black stockings, while the away

clubs were to wear black or another dark color with white stockings. Lastly,

the ALPF announced that Sunderland, then an English powerhouse, were to come stateside

and play a series of exhibitions with its league members in 1895.

Washington Senators Manager Gus Schmelz

via www.baseballreference.com

Despite the positivity emanating from the press, and

the consistently emphatic language spewed by the owners, several factors seemed

detrimental to the long-term success of the ALPF. First, the owners did not set a fixed schedule. Though the owners kept pushing an October to

January schedule through the press, in reality the league could and would not

begin until the end of the baseball season, which could, and did, drum on after

October 1. Additionally, the owners did

not set specific game dates, only stating that they would try not to interfere

with the college football schedule. In fact, well into October the league still

did not have a season schedule stretching farther than the end of that month.

Another act that seemed detrimental to the success of the league was that fact the

owners refused to gather genuine soccer minds. The owners allowed the baseball managers to

run the soccer clubs, though as you will see was not true for each of the six

clubs. In Washington’s case, the manager of both sports was Gustavus, “Gus,”

Schmelz. This, in effect, was an attempt

to keep baseball fans interested since the baseball players would not be

participating in the new league, but, consequently, meant that fans would not

witness the best tactics on display. In addition to retaining their baseball

managers, the owners named the soccer clubs after their respective baseball

clubs. This may seem odd to any American sports fan, but became common elsewhere

in the world, with Real Madrid being a prime example of several sports falling

under the umbrella of one club.

Outside opposition to league also existed in addition

to these initial glaring oversights in the league’s creation. A little over a

month after the announced formation of the ALPF, the American Football

Association (AFA) the first governing body for the sport in the United States,

barred any of its players from playing in the new league. The AFA, formed in

1884, oversaw the non-professional leagues throughout the East. The AFA had

reason to worry, as the ALPF pulled many players from teams under their jurisdiction,

including several of Washington’s players who J. Earl Wagner culled from the

Trenton (NJ) Rovers and nearly all of the players competing for Brooklyn once

suited up for the Fall River Rovers (MA). Ironically, the AFA’s opposition proved

irrelevant after sides affiliated with the governing body engaged in friendly

matches with the new professional clubs prior to the start of the ALPF season.

The

Washington Senators

As previously mentioned, J. Earle Wagner, owner of

the Washington Senators Baseball Club, in addition to President Irwin and

Boston’s owner Arthur Soden, took the creation of the ALPF seriously from the

first rumblings of its creation. This may, or may not, have been to the

detriment of Washington’s baseball club, as they eventually finished 11th

out of the 12 team National League posting a 45-87 record. By July 30, well

before the official creation of the league, Washington had twelve of eighteen

players under contract. The Washington

Post featured a profile on these twelve “footballers” a short time later,

which is something each city’s daily did to garner interest in the ALPF. Among

the initial twelve players signed by August 5, were future captain and halfback

John, D. Gallagher, and 5’4 ¼ ” goalkeeper John L. Kearns, who ultimately did not remain with the team. In addition to player profiles, each city’s press

claimed that their city’s team were a quality eleven capable of winning the

league, Washington was no exception. President, and Philadelphia Phillies

owner, Irwin even proclaimed the Washington squad as quality prior to the start

of the campaign, though no league president has ever publicly stated that teams

competing within his start-up league were not quality, nor would any local

press seek to turn off fans by writing about how terrible a team was.

Temple Cup

After several months of planning and the positive

press emanating from the Washington Post,

Washington’s roster final roster remained up in the air after announced start

of the league on October 1. Washington was not the only club with a roster

that remained unfilled. Each club within the league had holes within their

roster for a variety of reasons. Inevitably, the National League baseball season

delayed the start of the ALPF season with mangers, like Wagner, still tweaking

his baseball roster while focusing on the soccer side of his club. Ultimately,

the Temple Cup, the newly created championship of the National League, series

dragged on until October 8 and postponed the announced start of the ALPF’s

season. The inaugural Temple Cup Series is an entire story unto itself, with a

feud over gate receipts, a fashionably late fixed schedule, and a rousing party

welcoming the Baltimore baseball team in the city of Washington all happening

prior to the ALPF season. Obviously, and perhaps from the owners perspective, understandably,

the opening of the soccer season remained second fiddle to baseball. Within

this atmosphere, the soccer entities, namely Washington, continued practicing,

scrimmaging, and singing players.

National Park ca. 1905

Going into October, Gus Schmelz, Washington’s manager,

had an idea of his squad’s makeup and the ground they would play on. Each

soccer club played in the stadium of their baseball counterparts as these were

the premier venues of their day. For Washington, this meant that the club

played its home games at National Park, a site that the Howard University

Hospital now occupies in Northwest, Washington, D.C. Wagner selected red, white, and

black as the team’s colors, similar to D.C.’s current club D.C. United. The

team’s uniforms consisted of “trousers of heavy white duck, the shirts of wide

black and white stripes, and the skull caps, belts, and stockings of dark red.”

To round out the uniform, the team had two sweaters, “the lighter one of solid

red, and the heavier one of black and white horizontal stripes.”

Charlie Abbey

Washington Senators Centerfielder

and Footballer

Based on just the first twelve signings for the of Washington’s squad, we, today, would consider many of the players small. The tallest player of

the first twelve to sign for Washington was halfback James Tiffany who stood

just 5’7 ½” tall. Of the first twelve to sign with the club, ten remained with

the club to open the season. Due

to their collective height, Washington looked to utilize the players speed to

compete in the league. In fact, Washington fielded several players that football

experts of the day considered the fastest in the league. Joining manager

Schmelz from the baseball side was Charlie Abbey, the only Senator to suit up

for both baseball and soccer entities. The Post

projected Abbey as a reserve keeper, but also mentioned his abilities in the

field. He eventually saw action in defense. It was not until October 10, the

day before Washington’s season opener, that the squad seemed finalized when

their goalkeeper, John Lynch finally showed up to Nationals Park. With the team

finally set, the opening game of Washington’s foray in the ALPF proved to be a rather

pompous and celebrated affair.

So what became of the ALPF? Click here for part two.

In keeping with the format of my first post, I will list some of the sources I used in making this article here instead of using footnotes. A number of primary and secondary sources were used in the making of this post including: The Baltimore Sun, The Boston Globe, The New York Times, The New York Tribune, The Washington Post, The Washington Star, Ed Farnsworth's post concerning Philadelphia's ALPF History, Steve Holroyd's History of the ALPF, www.baseballreference.com, as well as several other secondary sources.
