For the first part of this post, click here.

After months of meetings between its owners, and in

the midst of the National League’s Temple Cup Series, four teams kicked off The

American League of Professional Football (ALPF) inaugural season October 6, 1894.

Bostonians, wooed to the South End Grounds by a pre-game rugby match, witnessed

the Boston eleven defeat the visiting Brooklyn club 3-2, while the original New

York Football Giants swept into Philadelphia and drubbed the hosts 5-0. Meanwhile,

the people of Washington had to wait nearly another week to see the Senators

play the first professional soccer game in the city, as the league postponed the their intial game due to the Orioles

participation in the Temple Cup. Oddly, New York, Baltimore’s Temple Cup foe,

was able to field an eleven to open the ALPF season a full ten days before Baltimore

officially entered the league on October 17. Baltimore’s entrance into league

play proved to be unique among the league’s entrants, and a defining storyline

in the short history of the ALPF.

The

Washington Senators

Washington Nationals Logo 1948-54

Potential badge for soccer club?

www.sportslogos.net

Washington’s owner, J. Earl Wagner, knew that he

would need to exert significant effort to draw spectators to the stadium and

make soccer a viable professional sport within America. Similar to Boston’s

staging of a rugby game prior to its opener, Wagner enticed fans to the Senators’

season opener on October 11 in a number of ways. First, Wagner, who had pushed

updates of his squad through the press for months, advertised a band concert

prior to Washington’s first game every day in The Washington Post for a week prior to game day. In addition to offering a concert prior to the

club’s first foray in the ALPF, Wagner offered free entry to woman in

possession of “complimentary books,” an offer he carried over from the baseball

side of his growing sports empire. “Ladies Day” was something Wagner sought to

offer two games a week prior to the season. Wagner mailed these books to women throughout

Washington upon written request, which today seems rather odd, but did not

solicit any known reaction within the press in 1894.

An introductory band and free entry for women would

seem to be enough to garner interest in the Washington Senators season opener, but

Wagner desired more attention and more paying customers. Prior to the concert

and the game, both the Senators, and their opponent Philadelphia, paraded, in

full uniform, to the stadium in carriages following “a brass band on a tally-ho

coach.” Any Washingtonian wishing to witness the gallant parade of players and

game could enter National Park for as little as .25 cents. Entry to the game,

as agreed upon with the other team’s owners, was .25 and .50 cents, the same

rate for Georgetown “gridiron” football games and, ironically, admission to

George Washington’s estate, Mt. Vernon. Wagner also entered into an agreement

with the management of the Randall Hotel, near the White House, to fly a flag

from their premises when the Senators played a game. If the flag were flying at

3:00 pm each game day, then the Senators would be on display as they were on

October 11. Within such a vivacious and celebratory atmosphere, Washington

played host to ALPF President Irwin’s eleven from Philadelphia.

After the ostentatious entrance to National’s Park

and the advertised pre-game entertainment, 700 to 1,500 people gathered into

National Park to witness their city’s initial flirtation with association

football. (Newspaper sources differ on the attendance and this aggregation of

announced attendances via different newspapers will be used throughout this

post) Spectators filled the grandstand as well as carriages that

lined center and left field of the baseball stadium. Washington, as the other

clubs of the league had, took the field in the 2-3-5 pyramid formation of the period.

One of Wagner’s original signings, John D. Gallagher captained the Washington club

and led “his crew of gamey youngsters” against ALPF President, and Philadelphia

Phillies owner, Arthur Irwin’s favored eleven. Washington, with goals from

fullback Joseph Devlin and right wing George Harvey took a 2-1 lead into halftime.

After a five-minute intermission, as was league custom, the Senators defended

their slim lead and captured their first win in an auspicious opening at

National Park.

Trying to make up for lost time, a staple of the

young league, the two sides played a second game at National Park the following

day, October 12. The amounts of spectators fell by several hundred despite another

rousing band concert prior to the game, though The Washington Post does not give an official attendance figure.

Despite their successes, perhaps luck, in their first game, Washington did not

win their second game. Though the referee disallowed a potential game-tying

goal, which was blamed on the lack of guard net, the Washington eleven fell to

visiting Philadelphia 3-2. The referee disallowed the potential goal in

question early in the second half, as he could not judge from his place on the

field whether a ball went over or under the goal. The press assigned blame for

the equipment bungle squarely on the club’s management, an early instance of

the press meddling with the hearts and minds of supporters. Despite the loss,

the press surrounding the game, and the league at large, proved to be positive up

to this point in the season, but significant threats to the viability of the

league were forming.

Baltimore,

Washington, and rest of the ALPF’s first season

Edward, "Ned" Hanlon

Library of Congress

While professional soccer was on display in

Washington for the first time, the other members of the ALPF were also playing

games, save for Baltimore who were still signing and waiting for their players

to arrive in the city on October 12. The baseball side of the Baltimore club

had just dropped four straight games and the Temple Cup to New York, whose

soccer club, opened the ALPF season on October 6 while

their baseball team was competing for the Temple Cup. Baltimore’s lack of a

concrete soccer eleven prior to the beginning of the ALPF season gives one the

impression that the club cared little about their foray into professional

soccer, which could not be farther from the truth. While it seemed Baltimore

was lacking behind the rest of the ALPF sides, the club including their

baseball manager, Edward Hanlon, were busy forming what proved to be the finest

squad in the league. In his own words, Hanlon described the squad he rounded up

shortly after the end of the baseball season:

“I

did not think it would be right, after giving Baltimore a good baseball team,

to give it a mediocre football team, so I have hustled around the last two

weeks and gotten together a first-class one. The managers of the other clubs

have been sneering at our team, but I didn’t live in Detroit for several years

for nothing, and I am sure that my material is the best in the circuit.” [sic]

Hanlon, though manager

in name, allowed one of his signings, A.W. Stewart, to effectively manage the

team as goalkeeper and club captain, making Baltimore the only club in the

league managed by someone familiar with the game. In addition to Stewart,

Hanlon signed a number of professional footballers he claimed were from Detroit

like Stewart, but the players actually hailed from England and included; Mitchell

Calvey, Archibald Ferguson, Tommy Little, and Alexander Wallace all squad

players of Manchester City, and Fred Davies of Sheffield United. Baltimore’s

use of English professionals would prove to be problematic despite the fact

that other clubs, like Philadelphia, had signed former English professionals.

With A.W. Stewart at the helm and a core of seasoned professionals, Baltimore

became the last team in the ALPF to play its season opener on October 17

against Washington at Nationals Park.

By October 15, the

league still did not have a definitive schedule of games beyond October 23,

which again is something that illustrates the commitment, or lack thereof, of

the baseball magnates to the ALPF. The lack of a prolonged schedule was one of

the factors deemed potentially detrimental to the success of the league upon

its formation in the first part of this post. In addition to this week-by-week

schedule and the late start to the league due to the National League baseball

season, another threat to the success of the league appeared at this time. Rumblings

of a rival professional baseball league surfaced just after the ALPF season officially

started. On October 18, the American Association of Baseball Clubs (ABA) officially

formed in New York in direct competition for fans and players with the National

League. The rival league threatened the monopoly the National League owners had

on professional baseball, and due to their lackluster commitment to their

soccer clubs, threatened the future of the ALPF. Despite these somewhat glaring

shortcomings, the ALPF continued in the meantime.

Secretary of the Treasury John G. Carlisle

Library of Congress

Prior to their initial meeting

with Baltimore, Washington, keeping with the close succession of games thus far,

travelled to Philadelphia and dropped their second consecutive game to the

Phillies 4-1 on October 15. The Senators opened the scoring early on from an

own goal and trailed only 2-1 at the half, but the Philadelphia side proved too

much over the course of the game. After the loss, Washington travelled back

home to host Baltimore the very next day, October 16, at National Park. Wagner

again deemed the game Ladies Day, and allowed free entry to women in possession

of his patented “complimentary books.” Going into the game, both The Washington Post and The Baltimore Sun extolled the talents

of the Baltimore eleven hailing primarily from Detroit by way of England,

though the players origins remained unknown, outside of Baltimore’s club, prior

to the game. The praise from the city’s dailies proved well placed. A.W.

Stewart and his band of seasoned professionals entered National Park and did

not disappoint the 300 to 500 fans present. By the end of the game, Hanlon’s group

of imported talent proved too much for the diminutive Senators, as Baltimore

completely outclassed Washington and took the game by a score of 10-1.

After the game, Ralph

Dean, one of Washington’s wingers, informed manager Gus Schmeltz that he recognized

several of Baltimore’s players names from England, as he subscribed to a Manchester

area newspaper and saw that the paper named several players of Baltimore in an

article. The Washington Post broke the story the next day in their

recap of the game, while The Baltimore

Sun made no mention of the imported talent aside from the cryptic headline “Foot-Ball

Hustlers.” Shortly after Washington’s accusations, the United States Department

of the Treasury, the government entity that handled immigration at that time, opened

an investigation of Baltimore’s team. The Treasury opened the investigation because

then Secretary of the Treasury, John G. Carlisle, declared prior to the season

that footballers were not artists and would not be able to enter the country while

under contract overseas. Therefore, the ALPF’s employment of English

professionals was fine, as long as they were not under contract with any club

outside of the United States, as it appeared several of Baltimore’s players

seemed to be. The Treasury Department’s investigation coupled with the creation

of the ABA capitalized on the already glaring inefficiencies of the league and signaled

the death knell of the ALPF.

Union Park, Baltimore, MD, 1897

Library of Congress

Just two days after

walloping Washington at National Park, Baltimore hosted the Senators on October

18, in its first home game at Union Park in front of 2500- 3000 spectators. Baltimore’s

talent proved superior once again, though they could not notch double-digit

goals a second consecutive time, defeating Washington 5-1. The two sides played

another game at National Park two days later, October 20, in front of only a “fair”

crowd, in what proved to be the final game of the season. Baltimore, with its imported

talent, defeated Washington once again this time by the score of 3-0. By this

time, the ABA officially formed and, though the new baseball league denied it, directly

battled the National League for fans and players while the U.S. Department of

the Treasury was actively investigation Baltimore’s alleged importation of professionals

under contract. The owners, not alluding to the ABA or government

investigation, decided to end the first season of the ALPF abruptly on October

20, much to the protestations of Wagner, President Irwin, and the Baltimore

outfit. Officially, the owners cited the leagues floundering attendance, the

late start of the league, and a possible conflict with the college football

schedule as the reasons they were ending the season. The owners did not admit

any fault for their lack of a definitive schedule, their baffling scheduling of

games during the workweek, their failure of employing individuals familiar with

the game, or their complete disrespect for the American Football Association. The

owners decided to honor their players’ contracts until November 1 and vowed to

learn from their mistakes and make a second attempt at a league the following year.

Many in the press already doubted that the sincerity of the claim, which

ultimately proved prophetic as the ALPF’s first season was also its last.

Wagner, following

Washington’s final game, paid his players their remaining salaries and purchased

train tickets to their respective hometowns. He, along with Philadelphia

Phillies owner Arthur Irwin, and Baltimore’s Harry Von der Horst, wanted to

continue the season despite its rocky start. Wagner, who showed a commitment to

the undertaking from the beginning, stated:

“I

was for continuing (the season), even if the clubs were losing a little money.

I went into the scheme with the full expectation of sinking a few thousand

dollars into this preliminary season, knowing that in time the game will take

with the masses and we would be reimbursed for our outlay. This was intended

merely as a season of education. It always takes more or less time to develop

any kind of sporting ventures and creating a liking for them with the people

who want to be entertained or amused.”

Ultimately, league play

within the ALPF lasted a mere two weeks from October 6-20. The endeavor perhaps

doomed from the baseball magnates initial meetings, eventually succumbed to the

ineptitude and ignorance of the owners, a hallmark of many professional

startups within the United States. The ALPF’s failure was only the first of

many unsuccessful professional soccer leagues over the course of the next

century. Ironically, had the ALPF somehow survived, the league’s centenary

would have coincided with the 1994 World Cup, which eventually led to the

current professional league in the United States, Major League Soccer.

Ddespite the failure of the ALPF, soccer survived in the U.S. and

several of the founding members of the league refused to stop playing once the

league folded, including the mighty Baltimore outfit. Due to the abrupt end to the

season and their undefeated record, Baltimore declared the club champions of

the league.

Click here for the third and final post: The real story of how

Baltimore’s ruse of importing players was discovered, and what the champion

Baltimore Orioles did following the league’s collapse.

In keeping with the format of my first post, I will list some of the sources I used in making this article here instead of using footnotes. A number of primary and secondary sources were used in the making of this post including: The Baltimore Sun, The Boston Globe, The New York Times, The New York Tribune, The Washington Post, The Washington Star, Ed Farnsworth's post concerning Philadelphia's ALPF History, Steve Holroyd's History of the ALPF, www.baseballreference.com, as well as several other secondary sources.
