You can read the first part of this article HERE.

A

Faulty Foundation

As the players prepared for their preseason tour,

Team America’s brass hurriedly constructed a marketing plan with a publicly

stated budget of $300,000 to $400,000. The team’s front office recognized that

not only were they were selling Washington, D.C. area fans their third team in

four years, but they were also attempting to sell an “all-American” team to an

apathetic and uninitiated audience. Therefore, the club’s leaders relied on the

team’s status as the USMNT, its alleged national appeal, and individual player

personalities to draw people to RFK Stadium. In addition to its ambitious

marketing plan, Team America’s front office was able to secure the patronage of

R.J. Reynolds as its primary sponsor. The tobacco company bestowed a publicly specified

sum of $2.5 million on Team America, while Budweiser chipped in around $200,000

to $250,000 to the USSF backed effort.

Source: The Washington Post

With its significant marketing budget and corporate

sponsors in the fold, the marketing team of Team America committed to the

timeless NASL practices of participating in international friendlies, heavily

promoting their home games against the New York Cosmos, and coupling one of the

club’s games with an after game concert. The club secured the services of the

Beach Boys for their June 12 match up against the Ft. Lauderdale Strikers, which

garnered national attention during the preseason after James Watt, the acting

Secretary of the Interior, banned the Beach Boys, and “rock music,” from the

city’s Fourth of July celebration on the National Mall. The ban, issued after

Team America scheduled their concert, left many people outraged including Vice

President George H.W. Bush, who backed the band stating, “They’re my friends

and I like their music.” The ban proved a boon for Team America as it generated

considerable nationwide interest in the event, but in the end, it underscored

the club’s biggest problem; the investors and front office’s focus on the

financial profitability of the project and its role in saving the NASL, and not

in securing the team the best “American” talent. The problem would plague Team

America throughout the season.

As much positive press as Team America were able to

generate prior to their Caribbean and South American tour, Panagoulias only had

thirteen players at his disposal headed into the international expedition. Most

of the players on the Team America roster were what many would quantify as a

typical American player: athletic and strong, but lacking in technical ability

and on-field ingenuity. The lone capable forward on the roster, Tony

Crescitelli, was anything but lethal having failed to score in twenty games

with the San Jose Earthquakes during the 1982 season. Panagoulias knew he would

need players with greater offensive prowess in order for the team to compete in

the long term.

The USMNT manager once again attempted to court

Ricky Davis and a slew of other prominent American players, including Mark

Peterson and Jeff Stock of the Seattle Sounders, only for America’s most

talented players to spurn him again. Peterson was arguably the best American

forward at the time and could have added a considerable threat to Team

America’s already anemic attack.

Several players including US International Boris

Bandov did join Team America for the tour, but the refusal of the country’s top

players to accept a national team call-up baffled and infuriated Panagoulias. Stock’s

and Peterson’s eschewal particularly enraged Panagoulias leading to the Greece

native to lash out declaring,

“I am furious about the Seattle team and their

players. They told me Peterson and Stock did not want to come because they

wanted to play in games against some colleges next week. This is absolutely

ridiculous. We’re talking about the national team here. What the heck is going

on in this country?”

In spite of the steady lack of interest and support,

Panagoulias and Team America carried on with the talent already on the roster.

The makeup of the team left Panagoulias little choice but to play defensively,

which in theory was in direct opposition to Team America’s goal of spurring

interest in America soccer and the NASL. Up to that point in its history, the

NASL instituted a number of distinctive rules to make soccer more appealing to

the American fan; i.e. a greater emphasis on offense and goals. From the penalty-shootout

to the thirty-five yard line offside rule, the NASL had always promoted an

offensive, high scoring game. Now Team America stood as the antithesis to what

the league had always promoted. The best offensive American players continued

rejections forced Team America, the anointed savior of the NASL, into adopting

a defensive approach heading into the 1983 NASL campaign. The style would prove

to be initially effective but wildly unpopular, and contribute to the club’s

downfall.

International

and League Surprise

A fully stocked Team America outside the entrance of RFK Stadium

Source: http://www.nasljerseys.com/images

Still reeling from their collective slight,

Panagoulias and Team America started their preseason tour in the Haitian

capital with a 1-0 victory over a Port-au-Prince select team on April 6, 1983.

Two days later, Team America competed in their first, and only, FIFA sanctioned

international fixture against the Haitian National Team defeating the island

nation 2-0 with the two goals coming from Jeff Durgan and Chico Borja. Team

America followed up their set of Haitian victories with a pair of losses to

greater competition from Colombian clubs Coruna Cristal and Deportivo Cali. In

their two games in South America, the USMNT conceded five goals and scored via

a lone penalty emphasizing the team’s weakness at forward. Overall,

Panagoulias’ men fared well having scored four goals while only conceding five,

but the team’s lack of a playmaker and goal scorer would prove lethal for the

team by seasons end.

Following Team America’s overseas sojourn, the team

returned to Washington a week before their NASL debut with just twelve players under

contract. With barely enough players to take the field, the team cancelled

their final preseason game against the University of Virginia in order to prevent

losing players to injury. It did not help that the club’s facilities were of

little help in promoting the player’s health.

The USMNT’s accommodations at the unofficial

national stadium, RFK, were perhaps fitting for the maligned team with the

sparse roster. According to The

Washington Post, the team’s place within the Washington sports world was more

appropriate for “Team Podunk,” and not the USMNT as the team’s locker room was

comprised of outdated furnishings in the bowels on the stadium.

Source: http://www.nasljerseys.com

Despite the consistent negativity surrounding the

club, the players who had signed with Team America, led by Captain America Jeff

Durgan, were bullish about the upcoming season and the importance of Team

America to the survival of the game in the United States. All that was needed

were a few more players to fill out the roster. The league soon stepped in and

fulfilled that need loaning Boris Bandov, the US active leader in caps at the

time, and Alan Green to the national team on a game-by-game basis just one day

before the season opener. (Both would later sign permanently.) The continual derision

led Jeff Durgan to lament the amount of support the team received up to that

point. The USMNT captain elicited help from all American players who wanted to

continue playing the game professionally in America stating,

“If you’re American and want to play professional

soccer in this country, then you should be playing for Team America, because if

it doesn’t make it, the league might not make it.”

Durgan’s sobering

statement once again emphasized not only the haste in which Team America was

created, but the lack of cohesion amongst the different entities involved: the

NASL owners, the MISL owners, the USSF, and individual American players. In

addition to the ongoing issues surrounding the team, many people, principally

the NASL Players Association, openly questioned the amount of naturalized

citizens on the roster bemoaning the true intentions of the so called “Team

America.” Under these tumultuous circumstances, Panagoulias led Team America

into their first domestic campaign praising the team stating, “Right now we

look like the 300 Spartans against the Persians, but I have faith in these

boys.”

Washington Post Ad for Team America's game against the Toronto Blizzard on June 7

Note the ad's reference of Team America as the USMNT

Source: The Washington Post

Team America opened the 1983 NASL campaign with

shootout victory over the Seattle Sounders. (The league did not permit draws

and every game had a definitive victor and loser with penalty shootouts

deciding stalemates after extra time.) The victory may have come as a surprise

to some, but the way the national team won the game was what many people expected,

as Team America did not force Seattle goalkeeper into a save until late in the

second period of overtime. Despite the win, coverage of Team America the

following day centered on the team’s offensive futility, but Panagoulias would

have none of it. The former Olympiakos manager extolled the beauty of a

defensive style of play while questioning American’s obsession with offensive

and tactically unsound soccer.

Following their victory against Seattle, the team

faced a both a daunting schedule during the month of May and the scorn of the

MISL who refused to release players to the USMNT. The MISL’s insolence prompted

Howard Samuels to declare, “The MISL is holding Team America hostage.” After

notching a 1-0 win in their home opener at RFK Stadium against the Tulsa

Roughnecks on May 8, the team crisscrossed the Western Hemisphere competing in

six games in twelve days from May 15 to May 27. The team’s schedule included

two international friendlies, one against English side Watford in Kingston,

Jamaica, and the other against the Soviet champions, from Belarus, Dynamo Minsk

in St. Louis, Missouri. The two friendlies once again served as an arena for

Samuel’s and the proponents of Team America to prove their intentions to

construct and field a competent and competitive national side, though the

project’s detractors would continue to vehemently voice their displeasure

regardless of Team America’s satisfactory domestic and international

performances.

Team America with President Reagan

Overall, Panagoulias’ men finished the month of May

with a respectable overall league record of three wins and three losses, but

the team continued to struggle offensively. In these matches, Team America

competed amid player snubs, the MISL’s refusal to cooperate with the NASL and USSF,

an apathetic fan base, and mounting public scrutiny. Players, pundits, and fans

alike were not buying into the Team America scheme, lending future doubt on the

sustainability of the entire concept. LA Times columnist Grahame L. Jones

denounced Team America as sham asserting, “It was idea doomed to failure from

the beginning.” Jones lamenting the amount of naturalized Americans on the

roster added, “It [having naturalized American’s on the roster] somehow goes

against the very purpose of the concept,” prior to the USMNT’s game against the

San Diego Sockers. Jones would not be the last member of the media to lambast

Team America, but by the time of his article, even Panagoulias, long the

champion of the national team cause, publicly began to doubt the viability of

the project humbly stating, “We’re trying to have a strong national team, and I

don’t know if were succeeding,”

Nevertheless, Team America continued to develop as a

team, signing several more players, including MISL midfielder Tony Bellinger,

who defied the MISL’s ban on lending players to Team America due to a clause in

his contract with the indoor league allowing him to play outdoors. Bellinger, seeing

the progress that Team America had made since its inception, was the first of several

Americans who joined the team after first refusing a call up, though he may

have been tempted to sign due to Team America’s lucrative incentive plan that

gave players a profit-sharing agreement with the team’s owners. The plan, which

later became public knowledge, offered players a stake in the team in addition

to bonuses for appearances and man-of-the-match (MOTM) awards, which, at

seasons end would net the player with the most MOTM awards an extra $10,000.

The incentive plan was a last ditch effort by Robert Lifton and Samuels to lure

America’s top players to the squad.

The Beach Boys playing at RFK following Team America's victory over the Strikers

Photo Credit: AP Photos

Photographer: Ira Schwarz

The team’s inability to score goals and defensive

tactics understandably failed to resonate with Washington’s fans as the team

were barely drawing 11,000 people to RFK at that point, though the team’s

coupling of the Beach Boys concert with their game against the Strikers did

coax 50,000 fans to the stadium. The team’s defensive mentality, combined with

the amount of naturalized American’s on the roster, led Washington Post columnist Ken Denlinger to call the team “Unamerican,”

while adding, “More goals would certainly attract more fans,” despite Panagoulias

temporarily guiding the team to first place in the NASL’s Southern Division in

early June. Team America’s goalkeeper, the naturalized Englishman Paul Hammond

referring to Team America’s lack of offensive prowess, said it best, “If you

look at things logically, there has to be a breakdown sooner or later.”

Inevitable

Decline

Despite rattling off four consecutive of wins to

start the month of June, including a 2-1 shootout victory over the New York

Cosmos on June 17, Team America’s lack of offensive prowess fed the growing negative

sentiments concerning the “un-American” tactics on display at RFK. Ken Denlinger,

a season long antagonist, again pointed out just how ineffective Team America’s

offensive was by highlighting their inability to score in the second half of

games leading the columnist to label the club “Team Tranquilizer.” Denlinger also

continued his nativist diatribe as the season wore on referring to the club as

“Team Immigration.” It was amid this constant criticism and continued offensive

feebleness that Team America’s lack of a creative goal scorer proved to be the

team’s Achilles heal with the USMNT dropping four of their next five games getting

outscored 10-3 in the process. The losing streak brought the team’s record to eight

wins and seven losses halfway through the season. The second half of the season

would prove just as tough for Panagoulias and the USMNT even after long awaited

reinforcements arrived.

As Team

America continued to lose, interest in the team, already tenuous, began to wane

considerably alongside any resemblance of positive press regardless of how much

Panagoulias wanted to exaggerate interest in the team. The Team America venture

reached critical mass near the end of July after the team dropped its eighth game

in a row bringing their record to eight wins and twelve losses leaving them in

last place in the Southern Division. Attendances at RFK were dwindling rapidly

with every loss. The team drew Team America drew a paltry 5,281 fans to the

stadium against the Montreal Manic on July 31. The losing streak and lack of

fans led owner Lifton to threaten to withdraw Team America from the league

stating,

“The attendance is a product of the team’s playing,

and the team’s playing is the product of the fact that the NASL did not do what

it said it was going to do, which was give us the best American players, and

the MISL did not do what they said they were going to do, which was fill in

with more players.”

During the prolonged losing streak, perhaps because

of Lifton’s outburst, Samuels ordered the NASL owners send American players on

loan to Team America to turn the USMNT season around, and effectually save the

league. Panagoulias, after speaking with Lifton and Samuels, agreed to allow

players to join the team on loan as long as he could choose the players. He still

coveted Seattle’s Mark Peterson but the forward’s eventual permanent move could

not save the floundering project.

Mark Peterson competing for a header against the Chicago Sting

Source: http://www.nasljerseys.com

Photo Credit: Chicago Tribune

In the end, Team America dropped fourteen of their

last sixteen games finishing the season with the league’s worst record with ten

wins and twenty losses. The lone bright spot of Team America’s slide was the

team’s 1-1 draw against Italian giant Juventus, a club that fielded seven

players from Italy’s 1982 World Cup winning squad. Lifton’s threats to withdraw

his support from the venture grew as the season wound to a close culminating in

a series of demands from Team America’s owner including Panagoulias' right to

choose the players he wanted for the team. The businessman, claiming losses of

over one million dollars, found little sympathy for the league’s other owners

who were losing far more money supporting their clubs. By seasons end, both the

Montreal Manic and the Seattle Sounders would cease to exist after each club’s

owners could no longer afford to keep the teams afloat.

Team America’s players also balked at Lifton’s plan

refusing to return to the clubs they played for prior to joining the USMNT

fearing that they would find themselves unemployed due to their commitment to

the moribund project. Despite the player’s demands to stay in Washington and

the Team America’s ongoing negotiations with the USSF and NASL, Team America’s

Lifton released Team America’s players to their parent clubs after Lifton, the

USSF, and the NASL could not come to an agreement surrounding the future of the

team.

Even as Lifton and the supporters of Team America

still clung to the minute chance of fielding a team in 1984, the concept, and

the league, was crumbling. RFK Stadium official’s confiscation of Team

America’s equipment and closure of the team’s locker room in early October signaled

the end of the of the shortsighted project after Lifton refused to pay the

stadium’s rental fees. Ultimately, Team America was a failure. Samuels’ proposal,

hampered throughout its existence, did not achieve any of its stated goals during

its short existence in the NASL.

A Captial Idea?

Source: http://www.funwhileitlasted.net

Though Team America did not exist in the NASL after the

1983 season, Panagoulias continued to manage the USMNT through the qualifying

matches for the 1986 World Cup providing a sense of hope that Team America,

despite its NASL’s shortcomings, would achieve its ultimate goal of qualifying

for the world’s most prestigious sports tournament.

As always, I relied

on a number of sources, both primary and secondary, in writing this article. I perused many newspapers with The Washington Post being chief among them. I also consulted The Chicago Tribune and The New York Times. In addition to these dailies, I gleaned information from several online sources including; http://www.nasljerseys.com, http://www.funwhileitlasted.net/, among others. As always, I would be lost if it weren't for the American Soccer History Archives.
