I am going with a shorter piece this time. The subject has been covered before, but I felt it needed another look anyway. Enjoy.

The NASL instituted several inane rules during its

existence. From the infamous penalty shoot-out to its elaborate points system,

the NASL inherently tweaked the laws of the beautiful game to make it more

appealing to Americans. Of all of the alterations to the traditional rules of

the game, the NASL’s institution of the golden-goal sudden-death overtime in

the 1971 postseason is perhaps one of the most outrageous modifications. The

rule inevitably led to the longest game in NASL

history.

The 1971 season, the NASL’s fourth, saw the league

undergo significant change with the nascent league still experiencing growing

pains. The Kansas City Spurs franchise folded after the 1970 campaign while the

league expanded into three new cities: Toronto, Montreal, and New York, home of

its future flagship franchise the Cosmos. The new clubs brought the league total to eight.

With the influx of new teams, the club owners decided to expand the NASL

postseason by staging a series of best-of-three game semifinals prior to the best-of-three

game final, allowing the two division second place clubs a chance at a title. Amongst

these changes, the club owners, spurred on by Rochester Lancers owner Charlie

Schiano, reluctantly instituted a golden goal overtime period for the playoffs

to avoid ties. This led to some incredibly lengthy playoff games involving,

ironically, Schiano’s Lancers.

Courtesy of Rochester Lancers

Rochester, the defending league champions, rolled

through the regular season finishing atop the Northern Division with a league

leading 141 points. They were paced by the league’s leading scorer, and future

U.S. international, the diminutive 5’4” Carlos Meditieri. The Cosmos, a team

devoid of star power at the time, ended their inaugural season in second place

pitting them in a semi-final series against Southern Division champion Atlanta.

Meanwhile, the Dallas Tornado finished one point shy of the South Division crown

second to Atlanta, rubber-stamping their place in a semi-final against

the league leading Lancers. While Atlanta swept New York in rather humdrum

fashion, the Rochester-Dallas semifinal series requires more than a sentence of

summary due to Schiano’s idea of sudden-death overtime.

The Lancers achieved the best record throughout

the regular season and entered the series as favorites, though Schiano recognized

that wins would not come easy during the semi-final showdown. Dallas, owned by

soccer and NFL luminary Lamar Hunt, had a very English identity. Ron Newman,

former Portsmouth midfielder and future U.S. Hall of Famer, managed the Tornado

and instituted a very rough style of English play. Not to mention the club

featured former Yugoslavian international Mirko Stojanovic in goal, a player

Newman ultimately suspended for the first game for walking out on practice

earlier in the week. This forced an injured Kenny Cooper into goal for the series

opener. Dallas, a tough matchup throughout the season, sought to stymie the Lancers

fluid play in the semifinal series.

Phil Woosnam, credit, Associated Press

With league president Phil Woosnam on hand, the

series kicked off at 8 pm on September 1 1971 at Aquinas Memorial Stadium in Rochester, New York in front of just over

8,000 fans. On one of the worst fields in NASL history, the two teams traded

goals during regulation. Dallas, physical as ever, slowed down Rochester’s creative

offense by consistently playing the ball out of bounds. The Tornado dictated the slow pace of the game and ultimately forced the game into overtime. After two overtime periods and 120 minutes neither team could break the

deadlock. Despite the game dragging with no end in sight, most of the fans stayed

to witness the rest of the match. Everyone must have felt a sense of history

watching as the game crept through several overtime periods.

Inevitably, President Woosnam sought to end the

match as it progressed into a fifth overtime period after appeals from several

individuals associated with the teams including Tornado owner Lamar Hunt and manager Newman. All

the while, Schiano, perhaps a little embarrassed at his golden goal suggestion,

insisted that the two teams play the game out, only agreeing to call the game

only if the two teams had not scored by midnight, four hours after the game

started. Little did anyone know that the game would actually last that long.

The players, past exhaustion, searched for ways to carry on throughout the

ordeal by drinking coffee and eating oranges. Salvation finally came in the form of a Calros Metidieri goal at 11:59 pm

in the 176th minute. Meditieri slotted a low shot past

Tornado keeper Kenny Cooper much to the excitement of everyone in attendance,

including the Tornado players. The teams were four minutes shy of playing two

games in one night. Following the lengthy affair, Metidieri predicted that the

Lancers record victory would propel them past a broken Dallas team, which

inevitably proved erroneous as the Tornado went on to win the next two games.

Beyond exhausted, the two teams met just three days

later in Dallas, with the Tornado taking that game 3-1 as Stojanovic returned

in goal. The Lancers and Tornado travelled

back to Rochester just a few days later for the series deciding third game. In

a game that mirrored the series opener, the two teams both notched a goal during

regulation and predictably entered overtime. Just as in the first game, the two

teams battled through several overtime periods until Bobby Moffat scored for

the Tornado in the 148th minute coming nowhere close to the record setting first game. The win granted Dallas a 2-1 victory and a

spot in the championship series against the Atlanta Chiefs. Dallas,

fatigued from their record setting semifinal series, dropped their first game

to the Chiefs, only to win the next two games and claimed the 1971 NASL

championship.

Dallas Tornado

courtest of www.nasljerseys.com

The league owners, upon Schiano’s insistence, introduced

the overtime rule to the NASL in 1971. Far from popular at the time of its institution,

the rule did not progress past the 1971 season. The owners dropped the playoff

series format and settled on single game elimination for the 1972 season, while

also dropping Schino’s overtime idea. Due to the rule changes the first game of

the Dallas-Rochester semifinal series in 1971 stands as the longest game in

NASL history and probably professional soccer history in America. The

significance of the game was not lost on either team following the season and

is still talked about among the individuals who were on hand that night. The

Dallas Tornado reveling in their grueling semi-final series win following their

championship season even had “176” engraved on their championship rings as a reminder of the historic game.

In writing this post I relied on numerous sources. Notably I depended on several interviews with Lancers owner Charlie Schiano by Soccer is a Kick in the Grass. I also consulted the Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, The Dallas Morning News, Sports Illustrated, Michael Lewis' piece on the game, and as always the American Soccer History Archives.
