On August 1, 1996, the United States Women’s National

Team (USWNT) defeated China 2-1 and captured the first women’s soccer gold

medal in Olympic history, avenging their disappointing third place finish at

the 1995 Women’s World Cup. At the time of the women’s victory in Atlanta, the USWNT

was the apex of women’s professional soccer in the U.S. as playing for a club

professionally was not always a viable option. Due to the lack of professional opportunities

globally, many of the U.S. Women’s National Team players did not play for a

professional club prior to the 1995 Women’s World Cup and 1996 Olympic Games. Instead,

players trained and found games with amateur clubs, college teams, or in the

case of Kristine Lilly, with a men’s professional indoor soccer team, the

Washington Warthogs.

At the time of her signing with the Warthogs in the

summer of 1995, Kristine Lilly was already the USWNT’s most capped player and

arguably the best player in the country. She earned the first of her world

record 352 international caps while still in high school at the age of 16 in

1987. She was one of five U.S. Women’s U-19 players including Joy Fawcett,

Julie Foudy, and Mia Hamm that would emerge as the golden generation of the

USWNT, which won the inaugural Women’s World Cup in 1991.

Source: www.teamusa.org

Photo: Getty Images

Washington

Warthogs and Lilly’s Signing

The Washington Warthogs were a professional indoor

soccer team that competed in the Continental Indoor Soccer League (CISL) from

1994 to until the league’s collapse in 1997. Prior to the debut of Major League

Soccer, the Warthogs were the only professional club in Washington D.C. The Capital outfit featured some of the country’s and area’s

top talent in Phillip Gyau, Goran Hunjak, and Dante Washington. The club also made

national headlines during their first season in the CISL by signing the club’s

first female player in local product Colette Cunningham. The Warthogs signing

of Cunningham proved instrumental in Lilly’s signing during the summer of 1995

as it proved the club was willing to sign talent no matter the gender of the

player. During the clubs existence, US international Jim Gabarra - who also

happened to be married to USWNT forward Carin Jennings-Gabarra - coached the

Warthogs and was heavily influential in obtaining Lilly’s signature.

It was during the Women’s World Cup in Sweden, that

Jim Gabarra began gauging Lilly’s talent and judging whether she could bring

anything to the Warthogs. Travelling to support his wife Carin, Gabarra decided

over the course of the tournament that Lilly was just what the Warthogs wanted. The club sought to sign a female player prior to the 1995 season. Lilly fit the bill, and just

happened to be one of the best female players in the world and without a club

after the tournament, which provided Gabarra with a win-win scenario in

approaching Lilly to sign with the indoor club. Gabarra described what he saw

in Lilly to The Washington Post, “she

has great skills, she has an exceptional work rate, and she’s a competitor…. in

the right situation a woman can play with guys, and I know Kristine can do it.”

Gabarra singled out Lilly for these qualities and decided against pursuing any

other USWNT members after the tournament as none of the players stood out more

than Lilly, and their schedules were not compatible with that of the Warthogs.

Lilly, understanding that Gabarra and the Warthogs

offer was not a marketing ploy, signed with the Warthogs shortly after the

USWNT exit from the Women’s World Cup. She signed with every intent to compete

and raise her level of play for the 1996 Summer Olympics stating, “I am really

excited about playing indoors…. I really think this will help my game.” Lilly’s

signing offered her an arena to compete at a high level as she admitted she

“didn’t have anyone to work out with” when she was not with the USWNT. The

opportunity to play in the CISL also forced her to improve her ability on the

ball and helped sharpen her mental and physical quickness. Her debut for the

indoor club had to wait until late August while she honored her commitments

with the national team. Just a month after the Women’s World Cup, the USWNT

committed to compete in the first womne’s edition of the US Cup which was an

annual tournament sponsored by the United States Soccer Federation (USSF) that

pitted three other international teams against the US in a round robin

tournament to spur interest in the game within America (the USWNT won the

tournament).

Lilly playing for the Warthogs

Source: Sports Illustrated

Photo: Ted Mathias

Lilly began training with the Warthogs in late

August 1995. She saw her first action not take long after her arrival making

her Warthogs debut on August 27 coming on with 7:52 remaining in a game against

the Monterrey La Raza registering one shot in a near minute on the field. Gabarra

limited her time in order to gradually introduce her to the pace and

physicality of the indoor game. Her appearance garnered significant media

attention nationally that culminated in a short article in Sports Illustrated, in which she reiterated her commitment to compete and

improve her game for the USWNT bid for Olympic gold. Following her debut, Lilly

made a handful of other appearances for the Warthogs never notching a goal.

Though she never made a significant impact on the

club, she achieved her stated goal of finding consistent competition to raise

her level of play for the Olympics. Gabarra’s wife, and Lilly’s USWNT teammate, Carin joined the Warthogs at training on a handful occasions giving the

Warthogs another connection – albeit a tenuous one – to the USWNT and Olympic

gold. In the end, Lilly’s stint proved nothing more than a brief stop with the

indoor club that provided her with a scheduled training regimen and guaranteed

high-level competition outside of her USWNT appearances. Her limited number of

games and frequent training kept her fit and aided in honing her already

world-class skills for international competition.

Lilly along with Brandi Chastain, Joy Faucett, Julie Fowdy, and Mia Hamm in 2004

Source: Sports Illustrated

Photo: Michael O'Neil

Following a brief contract dispute with the USSF,

Lilly, Carin Jennings-Gabarra, and seven other players joined the USWNT in

January 1996 in preparation for the Atlanta games. The USWNT went on to win

gold at the Olympics attracting a world record crowd of 76,481 to the gold

medal game, firmly establishing the women’s game in the United States in

the process. The USWNT’s success at the 1996 Olympics was the precursor to the

more famous 1999 Women’s World Cup victory starring a shirtless Brandi Chastain

that definitively cemented women’s soccer in the US, and gave birth to the first

fully professional women’s league the Women’s United Soccer Association (WUSA)

in 2000. Lilly went on to compete for the USWNT for twenty-three years playing

in five World Cups and three Olympic Games. In 2014, she was a first-ballot

inductee into the United States National Soccer Hall of Fame and a member of

the USWNT All-Time Best XI. Her time with the Warthogs serves to highlight the

difficulties professional women soccer players faced during the game's infancy and

the growth of women’s soccer in the United States since the 1996 Olympic Games.

In writing this article, I relied on numerous sources. I am indebted to Jim Gabarra and Carin Jennings-Gabarra for taking time out of their coaching schedules to acquiesce to my interview requests. I also relied on articles from Sports Illustrated, The New York Times, and The Washington Post. In addition to these sources, I also consulted The New England Soccer Journal and, as always, The American Soccer History Archives.
