LAS VEGAS – Las Vegas Lights FC announced on Tuesday the club had acquired defender Callum Stretch via transfer from Sarasota Paradise of USL League One for an undisclosed fee. The transaction was completed prior to the USL Championship Roster Freeze on Monday, Sept. 7, and is pending league and federation approval.

Stretch is under contract with the Lights through the 2027 season with a club option for 2028. The transaction marked the first outgoing transfer in Sarasota’s League One history.

The Puerto Rican international has made more than 75 appearances at the USL League One level with Tormenta FC and Sarasota Paradise over the last three seasons.

“We’re excited to welcome Callum to the Lights as our final signing prior to the roster freeze date on September 7,” said Lights Sporting Director Gianleonardo Neglia. “At 26 years old, he’s entering his prime years with a significant amount of experience already under his belt in both League One and international games. We believe that his physical traits and passing ability at center back will improve us on both ends of the pitch as we strengthen the squad for the playoff push.”

A former United States youth international, Stretch spent his formative years playing for the LA Galaxy Academy before joining Aston Villa’s youth setup at just 15 years old.

He then joined the University of Denver Pioneers, starting in 42 matches across two seasons in the Summit League, scoring once and contributing with 12 assists before transferring to Loyola Marymount University in 2022.

With the Loyola Marymount Lions, Stretch made 33 appearances across two seasons, scoring once and assisting once. While in college, he earned his first USL experiences in 2021 and 2022, spending the summers with USL League Two sides Ocean City Nor’easters and Tennessee SC.

Stretch signed his first professional contract in 2024, joining former USL League One side South Georgia Tormenta FC. He made 63 appearances across all competitions with Tormenta, scoring twice in his two seasons with the club.

The 26-year-old defender joined Sarasota Paradise at the start of the 2026 season, playing 13 times for the Floridian side across all competitions and scoring once. His only goal came in his last match against Union Omaha, earning his team a valuable point in Nebraska.

A Puerto Rican international with five caps to his name, Stretch made his debut for the Blue Hurricane on January 19, 2021 in a 1-0 victory over Caribbean rivals Dominican Republic in Santo Domingo. Earlier this year, he was called up for Puerto Rico’s FIFA Series appearance, helping the national team win the first tournament in Puerto Rican history.
