When San Antonio FC hosted Louisville City FC in the 2022 USL Championship Final it marked the first time the top seeds from both conferences had squared off in the Championship Final. | Photo courtesy Darren Abate / San Antonio FC

When San Antonio FC and Louisville City FC met for the first time it was, as SAFC defender Mitchell Taintor notes, “the Final of all Finals.”

Four years on from the 2022 USL Championship Final that saw San Antonio claim a 3-1 victory against LouCity at Toyota Field to claim the league title, the stakes won’t be quite as high on Tuesday night when the sides meet at the same venue in the Semifinals of the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup (8:30 p.m. ET | ESPN+), but the desire for both clubs to lift another piece of silverware remains just as strong.

“We’re excited at that opportunity,” said LouCity defender Sean Totsch. “Our goal is to win trophies and win any competition we enter. To be two wins away from lifting a trophy is right where we want to be.”

A Historic Final Showdown

The 2022 USL Championship Final remains a historic game in the league’s modern era. Even prior to the split to two conferences in the 2015 season, the top two teams in the league’s regular season had never previously squared off, with a pair of No. 1 vs. No. 3 matchups the closest there had been in the years since.

As both San Antonio and Louisville produced spectacular regular seasons – with limited interleague play still a thing at that point – they had to watch each other’s progress from afar.

“That whole year was just magic,” said Taintor. “We were looking at them, at the table, all the time, and when we were thinking about where we were at, it was never, ‘Oh, let’s look at where we are in the Western Conference.’ We were focused on Louisville and the Players’ Shield, and that was our main focus.”

San Antonio claimed the Players’ Shield with 77 points, narrowly missing out on setting single-season records for victories and points. A draw in their final regular season game against Orange County SC denied SAFC both marks as the side ended the year with a 24-5-5 record.

San Antonio FC stalwart Mitchell Taintor was voted the 2022 USL Championship Defender of the Year as he led the side to the Players' Shield and the league title. | Photo courtesy Darren Abate / San Antonio FC

“I remember after that game, everyone was really disappointed,” said Taintor. “Even though we were lifting a trophy that day, everyone was quite angry that we didn’t beat the record. And I think that that's just a testament to again the mentality and the standard that we set for ourselves.”

Taking control of the Eastern Conference with a 9-0-1 undefeated run midway through the season, LouCity faced more of a challenge to finish in first but closed the regular season with three consecutive wins to end on 72 points with a 22-6-6 record, four points ahead of its closest rival.

The road to the Final also proved harder for Louisville. The side was twice taken to extra time, first rallying to score twice in the final 10 minutes against Pittsburgh Riverhounds SC before winning in a penalty shootout before coming through in extra time against the Tampa Bay Rowdies on Elijah Wynder’s 108th-minute game-winner, and over that span injury began to take a toll.

“We were dealing with a lot of injuries going into that match, and I think we probably would have wished we had a little bit more of our full strength going into it,” said Totsch, “but I mean that’s how it gets. We’re not ones to make excuses about it, and we certainly had a team that we put out that we liked our chances.”

Louisville City FC's Sean Totsch was voted to the USL Championship's 2022 All-League First Team and was a finalist for Defender of the Year. | Photo courtesy Em-Dash Photography / Louisville City FC

By contrast, San Antonio had remained at its marauding best. Dubbed the “Mentality Monsters” by then-Head Coach Alen Marcina, there was also seemingly barely a week where someone wasn’t unavailable due to an ailment, but the thunderous and direct style spearheaded by Samuel Adeniran and Santiago Patiño in attack and embodied by midfielder and captain Connor Maloney, Taintor and goalkeeper Jordan Farr carried San Antonio through matchups against Oakland Roots SC and Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC.

“I think what was really unique about that team was everyone came in and had sort of an ego death. No one was here for themselves,” said Taintor. “When you look back on that year, there were players who played really key roles in really key games, but maybe not as consistently, and they were on the bench or off the roster. But when it was their time to perform, they performed and kept the level where we needed it to be. I think that was what was really special about that team.”

A Marquee Championship Night

As the two powers met for the first time, the Final itself couldn’t have started better for San Antonio. After just 108 seconds, Patiño was brought down by LouCity’s Wes Charpie for a penalty kick. Taintor stepped up but sent his shot wide of the right post.

“When that happened, I was like, ‘Hey, we're mentality monsters,’” said Taintor. “You just got to get on with it. And from then, I think it helped everyone settle into the game.”

When San Antonio was awarded a second penalty in first-half stoppage time, Patino converted, and from there the night was always likely to go the way of the hosts. Second-half goals by Adeniran and Patiño – who took home Final MVP honors – arrived before Brian Ownby pulled a consolation goal back for Louisville, and the packed house on a brisk San Antonio night got to celebrate the club’s first league crown.

San Antonio FC's Samuel Adeniran and Louisville City FC's Joshua Wynder battle during the 2022 USL Championship Final at Toyota Field. | Photo courtesy Darren Abate / San Antonio FC

For both sides, the atmosphere and environment that surrounded the contest was one that made the night special.

“I think leading up to that game, it was just an incredible sporting atmosphere, a great spectacle to be at, especially for this league,” said Taintor. “We ended up winning the whole thing at the end. So, it was a great night, a lot of great memories, and I think it was a great look for the league to have those two clubs performing at that high level.”

“They really have a cool venue there,” added Totsch. “They get good support. I thought the final was really well done there.”

“It was just a battle of two really good teams. I mean, they had a really good, solid team front to back, some guys who've gone on to do some big things now, like Adeniran and Jordan Farr and all their big names throughout there.”

Embracing the USL Cup

In the years since, Louisville and San Antonio have squared off on three more occasions. In their rematch the following year at Lynn Family Stadium, Wilson Harris’ first-half goal gave his side a small measure of revenge, but as time and players move on, there only remain a handful like Taintor and Totsch who remain from four seasons ago.

“Once [SAFC’s title-winning team] broke up and then they came here in 2024, we were a brand-new team,” said Taintor. “There wasn't really any of that lingering emotion from that that final. I think that was kind of dead in the water after 2023.”

That’s not to say there won’t be strong emotions on Tuesday night. Both SAFC and LouCity are among a distinct group of clubs who have won both the Players’ Shield and Championship Final, and are the last teams standing in this year’s USL Cup Semifinals who would complete the collection of trophies should they advance and win October’s Final against the winner between Hartford Athletic and Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC.

Louisville City's players celebrate claiming victory against the Tampa Bay Rowdies in a penalty shootout in the Prinx Tires USL Cup Quarterfinals in August. | Photo courtesy Louisville City FC

It’s an interesting undercurrent to the game at Toyota Field, where the competitiveness of both sides will be on display as they fight for the right to claim another trophy.

“We’re excited at that opportunity,” said Totsch. “I mean, obviously, it’s going to take a good team performance from the lads to get past San Antonio – we’re certainly not looking past them at all – but it means everything to this club and to the players here.”

“I think regardless if we didn’t win any trophies before, the desire and the effort, the attitude and the intensity to win this trophy would be the same,” added Taintor. “As competitors, you’re trying to win every trophy that you can. I think obviously it’s just a cherry on top that we could say, "Hey, we've completed the set,’ or for Louisville as well. But I don't think that changes the approach. I don't think it changes the intensity and the attitude and the preparation towards this game.”

Both veterans have also been enthused by the addition of the USL Cup to the league calendar, with the opportunity to not only take aim at another trophy during the campaign but the financial reward that comes from Prinx Tires’ sponsorship, the implementation of penalty shootouts after 90 minutes, and the potential for more knockout games – in some ways, a preparation for the postseason in November – among the positives both players have taken from the USL Championship’s addition to the competition in the past two editions.

San Antonio FC notched a 2-0 win against Miami FC to advance to Tuesday night's Prinx Tires USL Cup Semifinal at Toyota Field against Louisville City. | Photo courtesy Darren Abate / San Antonio FC

“I like the format,” said Taintor. “I think what I actually really like is that there's no overtime because as you see in all these tournaments, when there’s overtime, you’re like, ‘dang, I gotta play another 30 minutes. Let’s try not to lose, and let’s see what we can do in penalty kicks.’ That’s usually how it goes. It’s not really fun for the players. It’s not fun for the fans. It’s not fun for the people watching. So, I think that’s a really good incentive to add, ‘hey, try to get it done in the 90 minutes.’ I think it fosters a more competitive environment where you can take more risks.”

One Win from a Final

Having played previously this regular season – a 1-1 draw on August 8 which saw San Antonio’s Cristian Parano answer Mukwelle Akale’s early goal for LouCity – there will be some familiarity between the two sides compared to four years ago.

And, for Taintor, the aim will be for the preparations to mirror any other contest.

“The game is the game,” he said. “The dimensions of the pitch are the same. The training week is the same. The scouting is the same way that we scout every team. The way that we eat is the same. I think if you can kind of take away the emotion of the game – either way, there’s going to be a winner, there’s going to be a loser – and as long as you just understand that, and you make sure the effort, attitude, intensity, teamship, all the principles that guide us throughout the year are present during that day, then I think we have a good chance of going through.”

Having come this far, there’s every incentive to make the most of what’s in front of them.

“It's such a good opportunity,” said Totsch. “This team that we have this year, we’ve shown that despite some results didn’t go our way, or things that have felt not necessarily our best throughout the regular season, when it’s come down to elimination and you know gritty matches, we’ve shown our teeth and shown that we're capable of winning against any team, whether it’s in our league or MLS teams. We like our chances in these and we believe in ourselves tremendously when it comes to these knockout matches.”

“It’s a good matchup,” said Taintor. “It’s going to be a really good game for neutrals to watch, and hopefully, it ends up as the same score in 2022.”
