ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. – The Tampa Bay Rowdies announced on Wednesday the club had acquired forward Jürgen Locadia via transfer from fellow USL Championship club Miami FC. The transaction was completed prior to the USL Championship Roster Freeze on Monday, Sept. 7.

Locadia has notched 10 goals and two assists across all competitions for Miami FC since joining the club ahead of the 2026 USL Championship season. He also featured in this summer’s FIFA World Cup, starting in all three of Curaçao’s group stage matches as the nation made its debut in the tournament.

“I’m delighted to add Jürgen to the group as we approach the business end of the season,” said Rowdies Head Coach Dominic Casciato. “His quality and experience, along with his mentality to always put the team first, will help us as we look to keep moving forwards together."

“I’m excited to be here in Tampa Bay,” said Locadia. “I’ve played against the Rowdies this year, and they stood out to me as a really good team, both defensively and offensively. I’m really happy to be part of a team like that and I hope that my experience can help the team achieve their goals this year. I’ve won cups in the Netherlands, and I think that my drive as a player and style of play can help the team on the field. Overall, I just want to help the team in any way they need me to in these last two months of the season and in the playoffs.”

Born in the Netherlands, Locadia has represented Curaçao at the international level since 2023 when he filed a one-time switch to represent the island country. Locadia earned regular call-ups to the Netherland’s youth national teams, starting at the U17 level and progressing up to the U21 squad. The 32-year-old attacker has notched one goal for the Curaçao Men’s National Team and recorded two key assists to help the country finish at the top of their group in World Cup Qualifying.

Locadia joined Dutch powerhouse PSV Eindhoven’s youth academy at 16 years old and developed through the club’s system to earn a contract with the first team. Over eight seasons with PSV, Locadia netted 62 goals to help the club win two Eredivisie titles, two Dutch Super Cups, and one Dutch Cup. He also suited up for PSV in the UEFA Champions League and Europa League during his time with the club.

In 2018, Premier League side Brighton & Hove Albion acquired Locadia via transfer from PSV before signing him to a four-year contract. Two years later, Locadia gained his first experience in the U.S. while on loan to Major League Soccer’s FC Cincinnati as Designated Player for the 2020 and 2021 seasons.

Prior to signing for Miami FC this year, Locadia netted 10 goals for Spanish side FC Intercity during the 2025 season. His career has also included stints with Hoffenheim and VfL Bochum in the Bundesliga, Persepolis in the Persian Gulf Pro League, Cangzhou Mighty Lions in the Chinese Super League, and Amorebieta in Spain’s Segunda División.
