Hartford Athletic's Sebastian Anderson and Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC's Jonas Fjeldberg could have key roles as their sides meet in the Prinx Tires USL Cup Semifinals. | Photo courtesy Isaiah J. Downing / Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC

HARTFORD, Conn. – Defending titleholder Hartford Athletic plays host to Colorado Springs Switchabacks FC in the Semifinals of the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup on Tuesday night at Trinity Health Stadium as Athletic Head Coach Brendan Burke and a collection of his current player square off against their former club. Kickoff is scheduled for 7 p.m. ET and the game will air on ESPN+.

How They Got Here

Hartford Athletic (3-0-1, 10pts, 1st Group 5) – Hartford Athletic swept to a 4-2 victory against current USL League One leader the Charlotte Independence in the Quarterfinals, scoring the opening four goals of the game as Sadat Anaku scored twice and Augustine Williams provided a goal and assist before the visitors held off Charlotte’s late rally. The defending USL Cup titleholders are on a 12-game undefeated streak in the competition over the past two seasons, having won three consecutive games to close the group stage after a shootout against El Clamico rival Rhode Island FC in their opening game, with Williams having logged five goal contributions (3G, 2A) across five games in this year’s competition.

Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC (4-0-0, 12pts, 1st Group 2) – Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC advanced to the Semifinals via a penalty shootout against USL League One club Spokane Velocity FC as Khori Bennett scored the decisive goal in a 5-4 shootout win after Jonas Fjeldberg had equalized following Spokane’s early goal from Luis Gil at ONE Spokane Stadium. The Switchbacks had previously posted a perfect record in the group stage, winning all four games with Fjeldberg, Aidan Rocha and Juan Tejada each recording multiple goals. The Switchbacks will now aim to continue their impressive record in knockout games this season, having advanced to the Round of 16 in this year’s U.S. Open Cup before falling in a penalty shootout to the Colorado Rapids.

All-Time Series

Hartford Athletic and Colorado Springs Switchbacks have squared off on five occasions with each team taking victory twice and one draw. In their most recent meeting, Hartford took a 2-0 win behind goals from Adewale Obalola and Jack Panayotou at Weidner Field a season ago, with the Switchbacks having taken a 2-0 win on their last trip to Trinity Health Stadium in 2024 when Yosuke Hanya and Ronaldo Damus found the net.

Opta Says

79 – Hartford Athletic’s goalkeepers Antony Siaha and Enzo Carvalho have combined to produce a club save percentage of 79% in 27 games across the USL Championship and USL Cup, recording 98 saves and a -8.48 Goals Prevented mark between them.

19 – Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC has scored 19 goals from set pieces – including penalty kicks – across the USL Championship and USL Cup this season, the most of any club in the two competitions, accounting for 38.8% of the club’s 49 goals in the competitions.

Players to Watch

Hartford Athletic – Sebastian Anderson: One of a handful of former Switchbacks in Hartford’s squad, Anderson has recorded 6.79 Expected Assists across the USL Championship and USL Cup – the highest mark of any player in the two competitions – while logging five assists and 48 chances created.

Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC – Jonas Fjeldberg: The Norwegian has come through with key goals so far this season for the Switchbacks, scoring four game-winners among his eight tallies across the USL Championship and USL Cup, and has found the net in each of Hartford’s past two regular season contests.

Uniforms

Discipline Report

Hartford Athletic – No suspensions

Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC – No suspensions

Officials REF: Muhammad Hassan AR1: Tom Felice AR2: Jake Brochu 4TH: Jeremy Scheer
