Hartford Athletic advanced to the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup Final with victory against Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC on Tuesday night at Trinity Health Stadium. | Photo courtesy Axel Zito / Hartford Athletic

HARTFORD, Conn. – Barry Coffey and Adrián Diz Pe scored first-half goals as Hartford Athletic took a 2-1 victory against Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC in the Semifinals of the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup on Tuesday night at Trinity Health Stadium, sending the defending titleholders back to the Final to defend their crown.

The hosts grabbed the lead in just the third minute as Sebastian Anderson retrieved a cross on the top-right edge of the penalty area and slipped a pass inside to Junior Moreira, who fired a low shot to the left corner that was redirected in by Coffey near the penalty spot. Hartford doubled its lead eight minutes before halftime when a corner from the left by Anderson was flicked home at the near post by Diz Pe, bolstering its advantage.

Hartford almost added a third early in the second half when Augustine Williams broke onto a ball on the left side and centered for Michee Ngalina, whose close-range effort was well saved by Colorado Springs’ Christian Herrera, while moment later Juan Tejada curled a finish just wide of the left post for the visitors on their first good look of the night. Coffey had a chance to add his second of the night with 15 minutes to go, but had his shot blocked in the six-yard area by Talen Maples, while Colorado Springs’ Adrien Pérez headed just over for the visitors a few minutes later.

The Switchbacks struck with eight minutes to play, however, when Jonas Fjeldberg rifled home a finish after a good through-ball into the right side of the penalty area by Frank Daroma, cutting into Hartford’s advantage. Elvis Amoh then fired a volley from the penalty spot over the crossbar for the visitors, but despite Colorado Springs’ late pressure, Hartford held firm to advance to the Final.

Takeaways

Hartford Athletic – The hosts earned the opportunity defend their title with an outstanding first-half display that saw them apply sharp pressure and take control of the game with their work off the ball. After scoring their earliest goal of the campaign, Hartford’s high pressure forced the Switchbacks onto their heels as Athletic won possession four time in the attacking third in the opening half, and while the side was forced to hold onto its lead for much of the second half it did enough to come through, maintaining its strong run of overall recent form.

Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC – The visitors were unable to get to grips with the game in the opening half-hour – their first shot didn’t arrive until the 29th minute – and it wasn’t until the Switchbacks were down by a pair of goals that it felt like the visitors found a foothold in the game. Colorado Springs was far brighter in the second half, but despite another goal off the bench by Jonas Fjeldberg there was to be no late comeback this time around as Colorado Springs exited the competition.

Key Moment

Hartford’s Adrián Diz Pe headed home the first corner of the night for the hosts to give them a two-goal lead late in the first half, which proved to be the difference at the end of the night.

Key Stat

Hartford Athletic has dropped only two points from winning positions across the USL Championship and USL Cup this season, the lowest mark of any team in the Championship.

Prinx Tires USL Cup Player of the Game

Adrián Diz Pe, Hartford Athletic – The Cuban defender scored once and had a stellar defensive performance, recording 12 clearances and winning 7 of 11 duels and 2 of 3 tackles while making three interceptions.

Scoring Summary HFD – Barry Coffey (Junior Moreira) 3’ HFD – Adrián Diz Pe (Sebastian Anderson) 37’ COS – Jonas Fjeldberg (Frank Daroma) 82’
