Louisville City FC and San Antonio FC will try to advance to the Prinx Tires USL Cup Final for the first time when they square off on Tuesday night. | Photo courtesy Em-Dash Photography / Louisville City FC

SAN ANTONIO – San Antonio FC and Louisville City FC will square off on Tuesday night in the Semifinals of the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup as the former USL Championship title-winners meet for the first time in a knockout contest since the 2022 USL Championship Final, with both sides having the chance to become the first to win the Championship title, Players’ Shield and USL Cup should they advance to October’s Final. Kickoff is scheduled for 8:30 p.m. ET and the game will air on ESPN+.

How They Got Here

San Antonio FC (3-0-1, 11pts, 1st Group 3) – The 2022 Championship title winner took a 2-0 victory against wild card Miami FC in the Quarterfinals at Toyota Field as Cristian Parano scored both goals off a pair of assists from Jorge Hernández. San Antonio had previously finished on top of Group 3, going undefeated and conceding only once in its four games as it took victories against FC Tulsa and defending League One title-winner One Knoxville in the stage. The hosts will now try to claim their first win against Louisville City since the 2022 Championship Final to advance to the second final in club history.

Louisville City FC (3-0-1, 11pts, 1st Group 4) – The two-time Championship title-winner advanced to the Semifinals with a penalty shootout victory against the Tampa Bay Rowdies in the Quarterfinals at Al Lang Stadium as Taylor Davila scored the decisive goal from the spot in a 5-3 win after goalkeeper Hugo Fauroux had denied Tampa Bay’s Gennaro Nigro in the third round. LouCity also went undefeated in the group stage with a shootout victory against Detroit City FC and 4-2 win against Lexington SC carrying the side through arguably the toughest group in the competition. Louisville has been the highest-scoring side in the competition so far, with Jansen Wilson leading the way with a tournament-high five goals, and the visitors will hope that firepower can break down a strong San Antonio back line.

All-Time Series

San Antonio FC and Louisville City have each claimed one victory in their four prior meetings with SAFC taking a 3-1 win in the 2022 USL Championship Final and LouCity gaining a 1-0 win in the 2023 regular season. The past two meetings have ended in 1-1 draws, with the most recent encounter coming on August 8 when Parano scored a second-half equalizer at Lynn Family Stadium after LouCity’s Mukwelle Akale had put the hosts ahead.

Opta Says

12 – San Antonio FC has conceded 12 goals from set pieces across the USL Championship and USL Cup, accounting for 42.9% of the 28 goals the side has conceded in the 28 games the side has played across the two competitions.

10 – Louisville City has scored 10 goals via headers across the USL Championship and USL Cup, accounting for 20 percent of their 50 goals across the two competitions.

Players to Watch

San Antonio FC – Jorge Hernández: The perennial All-League selection leads all players with 81 chances created across the USL Championship and USL Cup while ranking second with nine assists, providing a key playmaking presence for San Antonio.

Louisville City FC – Taylor Davila: The 2025 USL Championship Player of the Year ranks second among all players with 6.68 Expected Assists across the USL Championship and USL Cup play, logging seven assists on 64 chances created, while providing strong two-way play in the center of midfield.

Uniforms

Discipline Report

San Antonio FC – Santiago Suarez (suspended)

Louisville City FC – No suspensions

Officials REF: Brad Jensen AR1: Alexander Arita AR2: Ricardo Ocamo 4TH: Elton Garcia
