TAMPA, Fla. – The USL Championship today announced the Team of the Week presented by SiteOne for Week 27 of the 2026 regular season, with Loudoun United FC forward Eddy Davis III earning Player of the Week honors after recording a hat trick in his side’s nine-goal thriller against Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC on Friday night at Segra Field.

A recent arrival on loan from the Philadelphia Union, Davis struck first in the 38th minute, putting home a finish after a scramble in front of the Switchbacks’ net. The 20-year-old then added a second seven minutes into the second half, latching onto a through-ball by Akil Watts before finishing crisply into the bottom-left corner of the net, and the same combination put Loudoun into the lead on the hour-mark as they capitalized on a turnover in Colorado Springs’ defensive third.

The hat trick wasn’t enough to earn Loudoun victory, though, as the Switchbacks rallied late to take a dramatic 5-4 win in one of the most entertaining games of the current campaign.

“As a nine, scoring a hat trick is obviously a dream performance for me, but I wish I could have done more to help get the win over the line for the boys,” said Davis. “We went up 3-2 and then 4-3, so it’s a really tough result. We have another match and another opportunity to go get three points, so we go again.”

The hat trick was the second of Davis’ young career, having previously notched three goals for the Philadelphia Union II on July 5 against New England Revolution II in MLS NEXT Pro. He joins Gordon Wild in having recorded a hat trick for Loudoun, with the German having scored three goals against Sporting Kansas City II on September 25, 2019.

The USL Championship Player of the Week is selected by the USL National Media Panel, which is made up of representatives from each media market in the USL Championship. Davis claimed the award with 75% of the vote, with Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC’s Khori Bennett finishing on 17% after his two-goal performance that included the late game-winner for his side in the same game.

GK – Enzo Carvalho, Hartford Athletic: Making his Championship debut, the Brazilian recorded a six-save performance to help Athletic earn a 1-1 draw at Detroit City FC and extend its current undefeated streak.

D – Sebastian Anderson, Hartford Athletic: The 24-year-old notched one assist and had three chances created while completing 25 of 30 passes overall in his side’s 2-1 win against the Charleston Battery while also winning 3 of 5 duels and making five recoveries.

D – Daltyn Knutson, Miami FC: The veteran scored the game-tying goal in stoppage time against Pittsburgh Riverhounds SC and completed 96 of 102 passes at Pitbull Stadium while also winning 10 of 15 duels and making seven clearances, six recoveries and four interceptions.

D – Sean Totsch, Louisville City FC: The veteran scored from the penalty spot in LouCity’s 1-1 draw on the road against Rhode Island FC and recorded seven recoveries and four clearances while completing 38 of 45 passes.

M – Memo Rodriguez, Sacramento Republic FC: Rodriguez notched the assist on Republic FC’s equalizer against Orange County SC and had four chances created while completing 38 of 43 passes overall and recording seven recoveries.

M – Jean Mota, Sporting Club Jacksonville: The Brazilian veteran notched one assist and three chances created in Jacksonville’s comeback 3-2 victory against Lexington SC while completing 26 of 29 passes, winning 4 of 6 duels and recording eight recoveries.

M – Peter-Lee Vassell, Birmingham Legion FC: The Jamaican notched one assist and two chances created in Legion’s 2-2 draw against Indy Eleven and completed 34 of 38 passes overall while winning 6 of 9 ground duels and making five recoveries at Michael A. Carroll Stadium.

M – Maxi Rodriguez, Detroit City FC: Rodriguez scored a stoppage-time goal in Le Rouge’s 1-1 draw against Hartford Athletic and had three shots and four chances created overall while completing 27 of 37 passes at Keyworth Stadium.

F – Arney Rocha, Miami FC: The Colombian recorded a goal and assist while recording four chances created and completing 23 of 29 passes in Miami’s 2-2 draw against Pittsburgh Riverhounds SC.

F – Khori Bennett, Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC: The Jamaican forward scored a pair of goals, including a stoppage-time winner, as he recorded five shots overall, completed 10 of 14 passes, won one penalty kick and had three chances created in his side’s 5-4 win against Loudoun United.

F – Eddy Davis III, Loudoun United FC: The 20-year-old scored the second hat trick in Loudoun history and recorded five shots on target overall while completing 16 of 18 passes and notching two chances created in United’s nine-goal thriller against Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC.

Coach – Liam Fox, Sporting Club Jacksonville: Fox’s side rallied in dramatic fashion to take a 3-2 victory against Lexington SC on Saturday night while recording 12 shots on target out of 16 overall in a thrilling contest at Hodges Stadium.

Bench – Dane Jacomen (TUL), Kipp Keller (NM), Pape Mar Boye (PHX), Brennan Creek (COS), Rodrigo da Costa (MIA), Marcus Epps (LEX), Sam Bassett (PIT)
