One Knoxville SC's Eli Conway bagged a pair of goals in Week 27, including a dramatic late winner against AV ALTA FC on Saturday night. | Photo courtesy Faith Wood / One Knoxville SC

As the USL Championship and League One regular season campaigns moved into the final quarter over the past week, the action delivered some outstanding attacking displays from young players around the league, including a notable hat trick and a brilliant late game-winning goal.

Overall, 69 players who entered the season age-eligible for the Young Player of the Year award saw action in the USL Championship and USL League One, including 22 players who went the full 90 minutes for their respective clubs.

Here are eight young standouts that caught our eye after impressive performances over the past week of action.

Want to learn more about the young homegrowns in the USL Championship and League One? Check out the Academy to Pro Tracker on USL-Academy.com.

1. Eli Conway, One Knoxville SC

Eli Conway has had to be patient at times in his rookie season for defending League One titleholder One Knoxville SC, but after scoring his first goal in the professional ranks in early August the past week provided another breakthrough as the 21-year-old scored in consecutive games to help lift his side to four points on the road, allowing the side to retain its place in the top four of this season’s standings.

Handed his sixth start of the season on Wednesday night on the road against Forward Madison FC, Conway delivered with a second-half goal that led to a 1-1 draw at Breese Stevens Field. He then delivered a standout finish in second-half stoppage time against AV ALTA FC, cutting in from the right side and curling a finish to the top-left corner of the net to lift One Knox to a 2-1 win in dramatic fashion.

“I can’t believe it, it just doesn’t feel real,” said Conway after the game. “The boys worked really hard tonight. We put in the work all week and this was a result we felt we deserved so getting it the way we did was massive. We know our ability and how good we can be, so to see a win again it’s a great feeling for us as we head into the remainder of the season. “We know what we can do.”

With eight games remaining to be played over the next six weeks, there is likely to be more opportunity for Conway to make a difference in One Knox’s playoff drive.

“I’m so pleased for Eli,” said Knoxville Head Coach Ian Fuller. “He’s gotten his reward to play with how he has trained and is now taking his chances. For us to get a result after a good performance, it means a lot to the players, the coaching staff has been working so hard, and I’m pleased for the supporters. They had to go through a lot and not seeing us get maximum points like we’re used to, so getting three points the way we did, any fan who stayed up to watch it got rewarded.”

2. Eddy Davis III, Loudoun United FC

Eddy Davis III scored the second hat trick in Loudoun United's history last Friday night in his side's clash with Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC at Segra Field. | Photo courtesy Patrick Garber / Loudoun United FC

There was only one way Eddy Davis III’s night could have gone better for Loudoun United FC on Friday night at Segra Field – if his hat trick had led to a victory instead of the dramatic 5-4 defeat the side suffered against Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC.

As the Philadelphia Union loanee concluded his first month on loan at Loudoun, though, the chemistry and finishing quality Davis can bring was on display as he recorded just the second hat trick in club history. The 20-year-old scored the opening three goals of the night for United, striking first seven minutes before halftime before a well-taken pair of second-half goals in the opening 15 minutes after the break gave the side its first lead of the night.

“As a nine, scoring a hat trick is obviously a dream performance for me, but I wish I could have done more to help get the win over the line for the boys,” said Davis. “We went up 3-2 and then 4-3, so it’s a really tough result. We have another match and another opportunity to go get three points, so we go again.”

Davis ended the night with a game-high seven shots, five of which were on target, while also notching a pair of chances created and a game-high 12 touches inside the penalty area. He’ll be aiming to build on this display as the final stretch of the season plays out.

3. Sadam Masereka, Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC

Sadam Masereka came on as a second-half substitute with Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC trailing by a goal at Loudoun United FC on Friday night, but in his limited action the Ugandan winger delivered a scintillating display on the right side to help lift the visitors to victory at Segra Field.

The 21-year-old rookie was an immediate threat for the Switchbacks and with six minutes to go set up Brennan Creek’s equalizer as he drove past his marker and into the right side of the penalty area before centering to Creek in space for a clean look and finish. Masereka did the same seven minutes later, and while he wasn’t credited with the assist his work set up another equalizer for Elvis Amoh before Colorado Springs claimed victory deep in stoppage time.

Masereka recorded three shots and had three chances created while completing 2 of 2 dibbles and 10 of 14 passes, highlighting the attacking spark he’s brought to Colorado Springs this season.

4. Jack Thomas, Fort Wayne FC

Fort Wayne FC's Jack Thomas notched the second goal in his side's victory against the Richmond Kickers last Wednesday night for his third of the current campaign. | Photo courtesy Chad Ryan / Fort Wayne FC

It was an up-and-down week for Fort Wayne FC in Week 27, but two of its young English standouts both contributed positively in a midweek victory with Jack Thomas bagging his third goal of the campaign to wrap up a 2-0 victory against the Richmond Kickers at Ruoff Mortgage Stadium.

Brought on as a substitute with 20 minutes to play, it took the 22-year-old only five minutes to make an impact has his headed finish off Michael Rempel’s free kick doubled the lead that Jayden Smith’s first-half goal had established. Thomas ended the game with two shots on target and one chances created while logging four touches inside the penalty area, creating a positive impact for the hosts.

5. Santiago Suarez, San Antonio FC

Facing a revamped FC Tulsa attack in a key battle for a top-four spot, Santiago Suarez put together another sterling display in the center of San Antonio’s back line on Saturday night at Toyota Field, helping the hosts earn a 0-0 draw and their eighth shutout of the current campaign.

Suarez won 6 of 7 duels and recorded three clearances and three interceptions defensively while completing 48 of 57 passes to help limit Tulsa to only five shots and none on target. The 21-year-old loanee from the New England Revolution has put together three consecutive solid displays individually for San Antonio, and now sits at a 65.6% duel success rate in the current USL Championship season.

6. Javen Romero, Charlotte Independence

The Charlotte Independence's Javen Romero notched an assist in his side's comeback victory against Portland Hearts of Pine last Wednesday night, adding to his stellar overall campaign. | Photo courtesy Noah Matthews / Charlotte Independence

It speaks to the versatility of Javen Romero that when he was brought on as a second-half substitute shortly after the Charlotte Independence fell behind against Portland Hearts of Pine last Wednesday night that the regular center back was not only asked to play on the left side but did so with aplomb.

Romero delivered the assist on Stéfano Pinho’s equalizer in second half stoppage time before the Independence went on to claim a dramatic 3-2 win, with his quality on the ball shining through again. The 20-year-old completed 23 of 27 passes overall – including 10 of 12 in the attacking third – while also making five recoveries and winning 2 of 3 aerial duels as the Jacks built pressure that eventually paid off.

The young Mexican will feature more consistently in the center of Charlotte’s back line over the remainder of the season, but the past week was a good showcase of his all-around game.

7. Aaron Essel, Sacramento Republic FC

When you’re brought on as a late replacement with your side trailing by a goal, being the one to find the equalizer is the outcome you’re looking for. Aaron Essel provided that impact for Republic FC on Saturday night, scoring with a near-post header off Memo Rodriguez’s corner kick just two minutes after making his entrance with nine minutes to play as Sacramento earned a 1-1 draw on the road at Orange County SC.

Essel’s cameo was a strong one overall. The 21-year-old completed 8 of 9 passes and made two recoveries and one interception defensively, but his first goal for Republic FC was a nice landmark for the young Ghanaian center back.

8. Omari Glasgow, Monterey Bay FC

Omari Glasgow might not have had the attacking impact he was hoping for as Monterey Bay FC against Phoenix Rising FC on Saturday night at Cardinale Stadium, but the Guyana international still made his presence felt with an active two-way performance that helped make a positive impact for the hosts.

Glasgow equaled a single-game high in the Championship this season for an outfield player with 13 recoveries defensively, while also completing 2 of 3 dribbles and 31 of 38 passes over the 90 minutes. With international duty likely coming up at the end of the month, the 22-year-old will be aiming to carry positive form into the Concacaf Nations League group stage.
