TAMPA, Fla. – Defending titleholder Hartford Athletic will host Louisville City FC in the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup Final on Sunday, October 4 at 3 p.m. ET on ESPN2 after the draw for hosting rights was made on Wednesday.

Hartford will get the chance to claim the title for a second consecutive edition of the tournament after advancing past Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC in Tuesday night’s Semifinals. Louisville City will aim to add to its two USL Championship titles and two Players’ Shields after progressing in a penalty shootout against San Antonio FC.

The club’s respective contests on the weekend of October 3-5 which saw Hartford set to host the Charleston Battery on Saturday night and Louisville City visit Sporting Club Jacksonville on Sunday evening, will be rescheduled.

2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup Final Sunday, October 4 Hartford Athletic vs. Louisville City FC 3 p.m. ET | Trinity Health Stadium | ESPN2 | Tickets

Hartford Athletic will try to claim its second consecutive Prinx Tires USL Cup as it hosts the most successful club of the USL Championship era in Louisville City FC in a showdown for the first silverware of the campaign. Hartford has yet to suffer defeat in regulation across two editions of the competition, going 13 consecutive games without defeat including five wins in regulation in the knockout stages after its 2-1 win against Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC.

Barry Coffey scored the opening goal against Colorado Springs for his third goal of this year’s competition, tied with Augustine Wiliams for the team high. Athletic is currently in its best form of the current campaign, sitting with a seven-game undefeated streak across all competitions (5-0-2) and a +6-goal differential over that span. Having gone on the road to defeat Sacramento Republic FC in last year’s Final, Hartford will get to play in front of its home fans this time as it seeks another piece of silverware.

Louisville City, meanwhile, will try to complete its trophy collection after advancing 8-7 in a penalty shootout against San Antonio FC on Tuesday night as newly arrived goalkeeper Ryan Schewe shone in his first start for the club. Schewe made three saves in the shootout, the last allowing Amadou Dia to convert in the 10th round and send the side through. LouCity has advanced on penalties in each of its knockout stage games, previously defeating the Tampa Bay Rowdies 5-3 from the spot at Al Lang Stadium in the Quarterfinals, and has an 8-1-3 record all-time against Hartford, including a 1-0 win when the teams met for the first time this campaign on July 4 at Lynn Family Stadium.
