Hartford Athletic's Brendan Burke and Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC's Alan McCann will be in opposing technical areas for the first time on Tuesday night after first coming together as coach and player more than a decade ago at USL League Two's Reading

When Hartford Athletic hosts Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC on Tuesday night in the Semifinals of the 2026 Prinx Tires USL Cup at Trinity Health Stadium (7 p.m. ET | ESPN+), it will mark an opportunity for both clubs to reach a final for the second time in their histories.

As defending USL Cup titleholders, Hartford Athletic has again come through its group and advanced on the road in its Quarterfinal, setting up the chance to defend its crown.

For the Switchbacks, this year’s competition offers the opportunity to add to the 2024 USL Championship title that already sits in its trophy cabinet.

But for Hartford Head Coach Brendan Burke and his Colorado Springs counterpart Alan McCann, it will mark the first encounter between two men who’ve served as mentor and mentee for more than a decade since they first came together as player and coach in Reading, Pa.

Summer Season, Kindred Spirits

When Brendan Burke took the helm at USL League Two side the Reading Rage in 2008, he was making the transition from player to coach. After two years at the helm, the club partnered with then-expansion Major League Soccer club the Philadelphia Union, changing its name to Reading United AC in the transition.

The aim for Burke and the Union staff was to bring in as many talented college prospects as they could, allowing the club to not only put a strong product on the field but potentially identify prospects for the Union for upcoming editions of the MLS SuperDraft, and with Burke’s star rising as a talented young manager, it proved successful.

It was then he got a call from friend and fellow coach Stephen Hogan, at that point Head Coach of Division II school College of Saint Rose to talk about his young Irish center back.

Brendan Burke's coaching career began at Reading United AC in USL League Two, where he first encountered future United Head Coach Alan McCann.

“Stephen called me, and he goes, ‘Look, this kid's a good player by our standards at Saint Rose, but he's never going to play for you in Reading,” said Burke. “But, you’re getting a a foot soldier who will buy in and actively learn. So I was like, ‘Yeah, sure, send them. We need training players. We need guys that can contribute to the environment.’”

With players like future United States Men’s National Team center back Matt Hedges at the top of Reading’s roster at his position, and numerous other future professionals throughout the squad, McCann was under no illusions as to his potential for playing time. The approach Burke took on and off the field quickly made McCann appreciate what he was gaining from his time on the training field and in the locker room.

“There's an immediate presence when you get to know him, very relatable, very easy going,” said McCann. “Then when it comes to football, it's dialed in. It’s intense. It’s detailed. It’s very driven, and I think that rubs off on the players most definitely. At least it did with that locker room in Reading at the time.”

So, what sort of player was McCann? One that Burke saw something of himself in, having been in the same position as a player when he competed for the Cape Cod Crusaders, a two-time League Two title-winner in 2002 and 2003.

“Left-footed, center back, slow, but read [the game] really well. Communicated extremely well. Good passer,” said Burke. “I was that guy in Cape Cod when they had their national title teams. I was just around the place, and I would get my 7-to-10 games a year, and that was it. Otherwise, I was a high-level training player, [that’s] how I would think about myself nicely, and Alan was that. I actually identified with him right away.”

Becoming Part of the Fraternity

As McCann completed his collegiate career at Northwood University in Florida, he began his transition to the coaching ranks. Becoming an assistant coach at Keiser University, he remained in contact with Burke and Hogan, offering tips on potential prospects competing in the Sunshine State like Palm Beach Atlantic’s Charlie Dennis.

When Burke moved into becoming Union reserve team Bethlehem Steel FC Head Coach and Hogan served as both his assistant and Head Coach at Reading United, it offered the chance for McCann to head back north.

“Part of my job for the Union, the larger organization, was to put people in place to run those systems, so we could continue to scout at a high level and bring in all these top college players,” said Burke. “I trusted those two implicitly to recruit well, and I think they both took it on their shoulders to be better than me at it. I think it was like a challenge to them, and they were they were great at it.”

Alan McCann addresses Reading United AC's players during his first season as the club's Head Coach during the 2018 USL League Two season. | Photo courtesy Reading United AC

Reading United continued to thrive, and continued to send players forward into the professional ranks both at the Union and elsewhere around the United States ecosystem. After three seasons as United’s Head Coach with McCann as his assistant, Hogan passed the torch, with McCann moving into the head coaching role while Hogan continued to assist Burke with the Steel.

It was there that McCann put into action the things he’d learned from both Burke and Hogan, now as a young up-and-coming coach himself.

“When you’re coach-to-coach, when you're young and you're learning from him, first of all through the Reading setup as a coach, then getting to see him with the First Team with the union, and then his role at Bethlehem Steel, you’re getting to see him execute all the details on pitch,” said McCann. “But then you’re also getting to see behind the scenes is the amount of hours it takes, every thought process that goes into every single player.”

McCann took the baton and ran with it. Not only did Reading finish as consecutive Mid Atlantic Division winners in both the 2018 and 2019 seasons and reach the League Two Final in both campaigns, but McCann earned League Two Coach of the Year honors in both campaigns.

From both McCann and Burke’s perspective, the awards were a product of the environment the collective had built over the prior decade, with McCann aiming to raise the bar from his predecessors, but Burke believes McCann’s drive provided impetus as well.

“The award in itself was genuinely not the be all end all,” he said. “It was something others made more of than we did. For me, it was that Brendan set a bar. You had to hit that at minimum, but minimum isn’t good enough. That bar that was set by him of players produced out of the club, players who kicked on. If they didn’t become a pro, they most definitely became a leading player in the college level. Then those lads pushed on and became leading coaches.”

Reading United AC won consecutive USL League Two Eastern Conference titles under Head Coach Alan McCann in the 2018 and 2019 seasons. | Photo courtesy Reading United AC

“He had probably the best development system in the country at that point, I would argue, behind him,” added Burke. “So, he was set up for success, and he equally deserves credit for grabbing it with both hands and pushing.”

Colorado Springs Calling

As the Union’s player development structure evolved, and Steel FC became the Union II, a new challenge came calling for Burke out West.

Having stepped down as Union II Head Coach the prior year – remaining part of the Union’s organization as Head of Recruitment Operations – the opportunity to take the reins at Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC as it opened its new 8,000-seat downtown venue Weidner Field was one that seemed full of promise.

There was no question as to who Burke wanted to join him either. Both Hogan and former Steel captain James Chambers – a solid midfield veteran that provided leadership in a lineup that at times included the future United States trio of Brenden Aaronson, Mark McKenzie and Auston Trusty – were shoo-ins as his assistants.

After the trio got settled in Colorado Springs, Hogan suggested the addition of McCann as a third member of the group, with his scouting and sports science experience bringing him up from his then-job at Palm Beach Atlantic to the Rocky Mountains.

“It wasn’t a conversation,” said McCann. “It was absolute no-brainer. I said yes to Brendan before I said anything to my missus. So, there wasn't a conversation. When can you come out? I can come out this day.”

It was there McCann get to dive into the professional ranks properly for the first time, while taking on board more lessons from how Burke not only managed training and games, but the individual personnel within the squad.

“[There was] one session where I was asked to do a drill, and it wasn't done the way he wanted it done, and it was a great lesson for me,” said McCan. “It was a drill that all of us have done 1,000,001 times, and you can do it with your eyes closed. But how he specifically wanted it delivered on that day was a very good lesson to learn [about] delivering specifically to what the head coach needs, so that lands to his players.”

Brendan Burke guided Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC back to the postseason in his first season at the helm, aided by assistants Stephen Hogan, James Chambers (seated, central). | Photo courtesy Isaiah J. Downing / Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC

As McCann came further into his own as an assistant alongside Hogan and Chambers, the characteristics he brought to the field and the staff were elements that Burke valued in the same way he had when McCann was a player in Reading.

“It was interesting because he always had a big personality,” said Burke. “Sometimes in a dark way, I guess, but always in a way that I identified with. Always in a way that I was like, ‘Yeah, you’re a winner. You’re going to do whatever you think is necessary to beat whatever’s set out in front of you,’ and that was his defining quality.”

Extending the Coaching Bond

With the history all four of the quartet had shared on and off the field – Burke and Hogan are legally brothers-in-law, having married a pair of sisters, and after his departure to join the staff at Houston Dynamo FC he would visit Colorado Springs during the club’s trips to face the Colorado Rapids – there has developed a bond that goes far beyond the soccer field.

“I wouldn't say it was always me and him,” said Burke. “It was always me and Hogie. It was always me and Chambo. Al was just kind of always with us. And then, obviously, he's emerged as his own person. I will say of all those times, when you manage 500 games between USL and MLS either as a top assistant or a head coach, you value the very little downtime you get, and the people around you are paramount. And I always had fun with Al.”

After Hogan stepped forward to take on coaching the Switchbacks for a year before Chambers – for Burke, the unsung hero of the quartet – led the side to its first USL Championship title in 2024 with McCann as his assistant, the lineage continued this offseason as McCann was promoted following the departure of both Hogan and Chambers from Colorado Springs.

Sporting Director Stephen Hogan (left), Head Coach James Chambers (center) and Assistant Coach Alan McCann (right) led Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC to the 2024 USL Championship title. | Photo courtesy Isaiah J. Downing / Colorado Springs Switchbacks FC

This season has produced a learning curve for the youngest of the quartet, with the Switchbacks proving capable of defeating anyone in the league – among their victories are group stage wins in USL Cup against El Paso Locomotive FC and New Mexico United and a regular season win against the Charleston Battery – while also capable of being their own worst enemy at times.

Leading the side, he’s also applying lessons he took from Burke’s tenure in terms of personnel, finding the players that won’t only fit with the ideas he wants to see on the field but the personalities that will mesh with his coaching style.

“Each coach has his own way of doing it,” said McCann. “I would say the best thing I learned from Brendan was he’s very specific when it comes to recruiting players that work for him. I know I definitely took that on board here.

“[Last year], there was there was very good lessons on the relationship side with players, the good of that, and then the bad, how quickly that can change. I learned some very, very valuable lessons in how quickly that can change. You can’t get too close to players, but you most definitely have to bring relationships into it. It’s a human business. It just so happens that there’s football at the end of it.”

Nothing Personal, Just Winning

The relationship between Burke and McCann now is akin to the relationships that stretch across the American soccer ecosystem, where the broader coaching fraternity sees friends match wits on a regular basis. Burke points to figures like Rhode Island FC Head Coach Khano Smith – his annual foe in El Clamico – as a good friend, as is the Charleston Battery’s Ben Pirmann.

What that means for Tuesday night – as Burke and McCann are on opposite sidelines as Head Coaches for the first time – is the focus for both will be on the field, and nothing more.

“No, I never look across,” said Burke. “It’s not me and him. It’s never going to be me and him. It’s about the players. It’s about the fan bases. It’s about winning. You know. So, nothing about this for me is personal at all.”

Brendan Burke led Hartford Athletic to its first silverware in club history as the club won the 2025 USL Cup. | Photo courtesy Club Eleven

“Neither is going to care about our stories,” added McCann. “It’s about winning, and that's another lesson. [Hartford Assistant Aaron Wheeler] is the same. We’re all wired that way. Once that whistle blows, it will be a game. It will be back to work. There won't be emotions in that.

“We’ll be good before it. We’ll be good after it. But yeah, once that whistle’s blown, neither side is going to care who the other is.”
