Robert Lewandowski scored two goals on his home debut as the Chicago Fire eked out a 2-1 victory over Charlotte FC on ⁠Saturday. The win is Chicago’s first in Major League Soccer since the end of the international break.

Lewandowski, signed in late June as a free agent, produced a vintage performance to help the Fire (9-6-2, 29 points) close an ever-narrowing gap with the Eastern Conference’s top three clubs. Charlotte (7-7-4, 25pts) has now lost four of its last five road matches.

Pep ⁠Biel opened the scoring in the 18th minute for Charlotte. After playing a one-two with Idan ​Toklomati at the top of the box, ‌the Spanish attacker sped past his marker and ‌rifled his shot past Chicago goalkeeper Chris Brady into the top right corner. The goal was Biel’s ‌team-leading ninth of the season.

Lewandowski responded just two minutes later, scoring his first goal in a Chicago uniform. Jonathan Bamba lofted a through-ball to Philip Zinckernagel, who headed it to an incoming Lewandowski. After faking a shot, Lewandowski put the ball on his right foot and slotted into the bottom ‌left corner, past goalkeeper Kristijan Kahlina.

The Fire almost took the lead when Zinckernagel found Robin Lod open in the box. However, the Finnish midfielder couldn’t steer his shot on ​target at such a steep angle, and Lewandowski could not connect with the ball at the far post.

In the 56th minute, Lewandowski played a pinpoint through-ball to a streaking Zinckernagel, setting him ⁠up for a one-on-one with Kahlina. Zinckernagel took one too many touches ​as he neared the keeper, who deflected his tight-angle shot away.

Chicago found the go-ahead goal in the 68th minute ​when Andrew Gutman found Lod ‌just outside the ​box in transition. Lod ​played Lewandowski in with a through ball, and the former Dortmund, Bayern Munich and Barcelona striker beat Kahlina at close range for his second goal of the game.

Lionel Messi returned to MLS action on Saturday, coming on in the second half as his Inter Miami side drew 2-2 with Columbus Crew. The Argentina star could not mark his return with a goal, though, twice shooting wide.

Luis Suárez scored his seventh goal in his last four games to put Miami 1-0 up in the 16th minute, but Casemiro scored an own goal to draw Columbus level. Suárez then set up Noah Allen to head the hosts back in fronts, but midfielder Brais Méndez levelled again with a late free-kick on his debut for the Crew.

Tai Baribo scored in the 77th minute to cap a second-half rally from two goals down as DC United earned ⁠a 2-2 home draw against Eastern Conference leaders Nashville SC.

Sign up to Soccer Desk

Jonathan Wilson and Guardian journalists bring expert analysis and reporting on the biggest stories in soccer.

after newsletter promotion

Sam Surridge’s penalty and Shakur Mohammed’s strike came eight minutes apart in the first half for Nashville, but Silvan Hefti volleyed in from a corner to make it 2-1 in the 56th minute. Baribo levelled for DC United when his shot from out wide beat Nashville keeper Brian Schwake.

New York City 1-1 Toronto; DC United 2-2 Nashville; Inter Miami 2-2 Columbus; Montréal 2-2 New England; New York Red Bulls 3-2 Orlando; Philadelphia Union 3-2 Atlanta United; Vancouver Whitecaps 1-1 LAFC; Chicago 2-1 Charlotte; Sporting KC 0-2 Houston Dynamo; Minnesota United 1-1 San Diego; St Louis City 1-1 Real Salt Lake; Colorado Rapids 1-0 Austin; Cincinnati 4-2 Sane Jose; LA Galaxy 0-0 Dallas; Portland Timbers 2-1 Seattle Sounders.

Thomas Müller’s penalty secured a 1-1 draw for the Vancouver Whitecaps against LAFC on the team’s return to BC Place Stadium. Son Heung-min had fired the visitors ahead with a neat turn and shot, but Müller won and converted a 76th-minute spot-kick after he was hauled down in the box by defender Yevhen Cheberko.

Brandon Bye scored the winning goal in the 82nd minute as the Portland Timbers handed the Seattle Sounders their sixth straight loss. Kevin Kelsey also scored for the Timbers, who are undefeated in four games after this 2-1 win. Kalani Kossa-Rienzi scored for the Sounders, who are dealing with a spate of injuries.
