The New England Revolution have denounced chants they deemed “antisemitic” and “discriminatory” from CF Montréal fans during Saturday’s MLS matchup between the sides in Quebec. The specific chants were directed towards New England’s Israeli striker Dor Turgeman, with broadcast microphones capturing fans chanting “free Palestine” shortly before he scored a goal.

MLS on Monday confirmed it was “aware of reported antisemitic and discriminatory language directed at a New England Revolution player” and that the matter is under investigation.

“The Revolution strongly condemn the antisemitic and discriminatory abuse directed at forward Dor Turgeman by CF Montreal supporters during Saturday’s away match,” the club said in a statement issued Monday afternoon. “The club immediately reported the incident to Major League Soccer and has fully supported the investigation. We appreciate MLS’ swift response and commitment to addressing incidents of discrimination. We are hopeful that those responsible will be held accountable for their unacceptable actions.”

The scenes in Montreal garnered attention in part due to Turgeman’s response. In the 36th minute, Turgeman scored a tap-in finish to put New England up 2-0. The 22-year-old, who signed for the Revolution last year, stood in front of the home supporters bank with outstretched arms as fans jeered and gestured. Turgeman followed the stance by raising a hand to his ear and walking from end to end of the section with the goal in between him and the crowd. The match ended in a 2-2 draw.

In a statement on Sunday, Montréal said the club would investigate the scenes at Stade Saputo.

“The club does not tolerate discrimination, or hateful behavior of any kind,” the statement read. “We take these allegations very seriously and are currently reviewing the matter. We are in contact with MLS and the New England Revolution as we work to establish all the facts and take the necessary actions.”

After the Hamas attack on Israel in October 2023, MLS banned both Israeli and Palestinian flags from its venues, with exemptions given in the case of an Israeli or Palestinian player’s presence on a roster. Columbus Crew supporters, for example, were able to display the Palestinian flag after signing Palestine international Wessam Abou Ali in August 2025, but the leaguewide ban remains intact.

In February 2025, the league condemned Los Angeles FC investor Ruben Gnanalingam for alleged anti-Israel posts shared on LinkedIn. The Malaysian investor apologized and still retains his stake in the club.
