If it wasn’t already clear that Arsenal will be the team to beat in the Premier League this season, their comprehensive 3-0 win over Coventry City on opening night highlighted just how far ahead of the chasing pack Mikel Arteta’s team are right now. The defending champions may not have to put up much of a defense to retain their crown.

Arsenal weren’t always the most comfortable of frontrunners last season. Many of their matches down the stretch were gruelling psychodramas, reflecting the nervousness of a fanbase that had waited 22 years for title glory. The tension around the Emirates was palpable as the finish line got closer and closer.

Against Coventry, and against Manchester City in the Community Shield, though, the Gunners played with complete freedom. Creatively and emotionally, Arsenal have been liberated by the experience of last season, generating 1.62 in open-play expected goals (xG) against Coventry, significantly higher than their open play xG average of 0.95 last season.

Of course, the true measure of Arsenal’s quality will be taken against teams who haven’t just won promotion from the Championship. They will come up against much stronger opponents than Frank Lampard’s Coventry, like on Monday when the champions travel to Villa Park, where they suffered defeat last season.

Nonetheless, it’s difficult to picture anyone being able to keep pace with Arsenal when there is such uncertainty across the Premier League at this moment. While other clubs are integrating new managers or bedding in summer signings, the Gunners are sitting high on a perch established over several seasons. The red-and-white ribbons on the Premier League trophy are tied tightly.

This time was meant to be different. Manchester United were supposed to have emerged from the dark days of Ruben Amorim’s tenure and into the breezy optimism of a new age under a manager players actually want to play for. There were, however, plenty of Amorim-isms in Saturday’s defeat to Hull City.

United were overwhelmed in central midfield. Their box defending was poor, as was their creative play in the final third, where Michael Carrick’s side struggled to generate clear looks at goal. For all the positivity of the second half of last season, this was a return to the sort of abject performance levels that brought down Amorim.

Perhaps most concerning for Carrick was the lack of energy from his players. For all Amorim’s many faults, he got Manchester United running. Over the summer, though, the intensity dropped out of their play and it’s unclear if they will be able to get it back. If United did any fitness work in preseason, it wasn’t evident in the loss to Hull.

With just one week of the summer transfer window left, it may now be dawning on Manchester United that they needed more than just midfield reinforcements. Their defense could have used some invigoration. Another center-forward to deputise for Benjamin Sesko would have been handy too. This is without even mentioning the lack of a top-level left winger.

For the most part, Carrick will have to find solutions within his current squad. Kobbie Mainoo’s availability, coupled with Carlos Baleba’s signing, could give some life to the midfield. Sesko’s return may prove timely. Maybe Carrick can squeeze something out of Marcus Rashford. Manchester United better hope there’s a quick fix somewhere –otherwise they are doomed to repeat the same cycle all over again.

Sign up to Soccer Desk

Jonathan Wilson and Guardian journalists bring expert analysis and reporting on the biggest stories in soccer.

after newsletter promotion

All the stars were present in Major League Soccer’s promotional campaign that attempted to convince potential new fans that it was ready to “take it from here” after the summer’s World Cup in North America. Lionel Messi, of course. Son Heung-min. Miguel Almirón. Antoine Griezmann, in bobblehead form. And Cavan Sullivan.

Sullivan, it’s hoped, will be a star of the future. That expectation has been placed on him from a young age. Certainly since signing a record deal in May 2024 that includes a future move to Manchester City, just two two months before breaking Freddy Adu’s longstanding record as the youngest player to ever feature for a senior MLS side when he made his Philadelphia Union debut at just 14 years and 293 days old.

The Adu comparison grew even stronger as Sullivan struggled to live up to his wonderkid billing. The teenager was predicted to play a prominent role for Philly this season, but had started just one league game by late April. Even as Sullivan began to earn a place in the Union lineup, his contribution wasn’t always notable. It was sometimes difficult to see what City saw.

That, however, has changed in recent weeks. Sullivan is now the driving force behind a Philadelphia team making up for a dreadful first half of the year. His post-World Cup form, which has perhaps not so coincidentally coincided with a change of coach, has been so eye-catching that some are now tipping him for a US men’s national team call-up next month. Mauricio Pochettino could use a baller (and a brawler?) of Sullivan’s profile.

Whether or not Sullivan is ready for that, his performances are finally justifying the hype. Still just 16, he won’t join Manchester City for another two years. It will still take a lot for Sullivan to make the leap to the Premier League in that time, but it’s now easier to envisage than it was only a few weeks ago.
