VANCOUVER – Good luck scoring against the Houston Dynamo.

In a battle between the top two teams in the Western Conference, the Dynamo prevailed 1-0 over the Vancouver Whitecaps at BC Place on Wednesday, silencing a crowd of over 22,000 and overtaking the 'Caps atop the West, while making some history along the way.

Franco Negri scored the lone goal in the 34th minute with a thunderous finish from outside the box, but it was the defensive prowess that led the way for the Dynamo. Despite constant Vancouver pressure, Houston held strong, securing a fifth straight clean sheet, while extending their winning streak to the same number.

By doing so, they became the third team in MLS history to win five consecutive games all via clean sheets.

“We talk about defense, we talk about these shutouts… but whether it's Guilherme, whether it's the center backs, they’re giving all they have for each other, and that's a special thing. They're buying into that and it gives us a chance to win games,” said head coach Ben Olsen after the match.

“We continue to work on being more dangerous and dealing with the ball a bit more and figuring out how we can relieve pressure... but the effort part is something we're proud of.”

Last Saturday, the Dynamo picked up a 1–0 victory against the LA Galaxy in front of a sold-out crowd at Shell Energy Stadium, and it finally felt like this team is breaking out as a true elite side in MLS.

With five shutout wins, confidence in every stage of the game is soaring, and goals like Negri’s strike add a certain caché to a team that has not won a trophy since the 2023 US Open Cup. Beating and shutting out the 2025 Western Conference champion Whitecaps twice in a single season adds plenty of swagger as well.

“We’re always \[feeling\] like a little bit of an afterthought in this league,” Olsen said. “That's just how it's been since I've been here and at times in the past, so we're still digging out of that, and we have to put ourselves on the map and make teams and the league respect us.

“I think this group has the right personality to do that. But we won't change. This group is too experienced. They just seem to expect this right now, and that's a really healthy feeling.”

During the victory, the Dynamo also got their 11th goalscorer of the season, showcasing the team’s depth, in addition to finding a defensive edge that matches few teams in MLS history.

“Playing against the Whitecaps, they’ve been as good as they come in this league for the last couple of years... we had a lot of respect for them coming in and we understood that there was a little bit more on the line with the first-place situation,” added Olsen, who can lean on 16 years of experience as a head coach with D.C. United and the Dynamo.

“The guys gave each other everything, and that always makes a coach proud... And now we’ve just got to keep going, and keep adding up points."

Even with the hot spell, the Dynamo know the project is far from over.

On a team level, the goal is undoubtedly a long run in the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs – but even on an individual level, there’s learning to be done.

Guilherme, who Olsen touted as the team’s “best player,” is in the running for the MLS Newcomer of the Year Award with 12g/7a in 19 starts, while the defense has developed into one of the league's stoutest backlines.

Yet, as much as Houston's form has taken MLS by storm, they’re not getting caught up in it all. Instead, the squad has crafted a careful balance between a game-by-game approach and a dream of soccer deep into December.

“We always dream,” added Olsen. “We always dream, especially once you start to see some potential in a team. But there’s a lot of games left, and I've been through MLS too many seasons as a player and coach to get too riled up right now.

“We need to just keep pushing and try to grab as many points as we can, and within that, get better and just keep rolling.”
