The MLS Secondary Transfer Window is over, and with it came 12 signings who competed at the 2026 FIFA World Cup this summer.

From new Designated Players to familiar names, here's the full rundown of players who recently helped their country compete on the sport's grandest stage.

This follows an MLS-record 45 players competing at the 2026 World Cup while representing 22 clubs and 17 countries.

San Diego FC acquired Achouri from Danish Superliga powerhouse FC Copenhagen, completing the deal in late July.

The 27-year-old winger inked a Designated Player deal after playing all three of Tunisia's Group Stage games at the 2026 World Cup.

Can he help San Diego build on their historic 2025 expansion campaign?

Elias Achouri said there’s no place like home 🏠First home game. First start. First SDFC goal. All in one night! pic.twitter.com/cOuA0ruGqz

Alonso joined Atlanta fresh off helping Paraguay reach the World Cup Round of 16, where the veteran defender was a regular starter.

Alonso arrived on a free transfer from Brazilian side Atlético Mineiro. He's part of Atlanta's revamped center-back group alongside fellow summer signing Paulo Díaz.

Welcome to ATL, Júnior and Paulo 🙌 pic.twitter.com/yLuaRiTcFV

Bakambu joins San Diego after deputizing regularly in DR Congo's attack, helping the Leopards reach the Round of 32 in their first World Cup since 1974.

The veteran striker was a free agent after playing for LaLiga's Real Betis. He brings a wealth of experience, tallying 191g/49a in nearly 500 appearances across stops in Spain, France, Turkey, Greece and more.

San Diego, meet Bakagoal 🇨🇩 pic.twitter.com/KIu0n98oon

One of the most decorated midfielders of his generation, Casemiro joined Inter Miami after playing in his third World Cup with Brazil.

He enjoyed a standout career in Europe, most notably with Real Madrid and Manchester United, and has won five UEFA Champions League titles.

Internationally, Casemiro has 10 goals in 91 caps with Brazil and won the 2019 Copa América.

Look at that hang time 😮Casemiro scores his first goal for @InterMiamiCF! 🔥 pic.twitter.com/zUtHOS6XfH

De Fougerolles joins Real Salt Lake on loan from Fulham after shining for Canada during their historic run to the World Cup Round of 16 as tournament co-hosts.

The 20-year-old center back is coming off a loan spell at Belgian side Dender, accumulating 30 appearances before returning to his parent club.

A career built on the biggest stages pic.twitter.com/zhKDqFhbMa

Douděra joins FC Cincinnati after representing Czechia at the World Cup, including playing the full 90 minutes in their Group Stage finale against Mexico.

He arrives from Slavia Prague, where he won three titles and played in 153 matches. At Cincy, Douděra links up with compatriot Pavel Bucha.

Say hello to our newest addition to the squad: David Douděra. 🇨🇿 pic.twitter.com/1S07fwFD7Z

Embolo joins Atlanta after helping Switzerland reach the World Cup quarterfinals, starting all six of his country's matches while contributing 2g/2a. The tournament marked his third World Cup.

Acquired as a Designated Player from Ligue 1's Stade Rennais, Embolo brings an extensive European résumé as Atlanta's new star striker.

Hitting all the right notes 🎼 pic.twitter.com/3gibgYGG2h

Foster joins Houston after helping South Africa reach their first-ever World Cup knockout round.

The 26-year-old striker is on loan from Burnley and spent last year playing in the English Premier League.

Foster has tallied 30g/23a in 194 professional appearances since breaking through at South African Premiership giants Orlando Pirates.

Adding pace and experience 😤 pic.twitter.com/X9BKqvMxk6

Galarza joins Inter Miami after helping Paraguay reach the World Cup Round of 16. He scored a memorable early goal against Türkiye.

The midfielder is on loan from Argentine powerhouse River Plate and brings MLS experience after spending the first half of 2026 on loan with Atlanta.

PARAGUAY STARTING OFF HOT! 🇵🇾Matías Galarza scores early in the 2nd minute! 🤯 pic.twitter.com/2a0HHacGen

Gunn joined San Jose after serving as Scotland's starting goalkeeper at the 2026 World Cup, which marked the country's first appearance since the 1998 tournament.

He was a free agent and most recently played for Nottingham Forest. There are some big shoes to fill, too, after Daniel was traded to FC Dallas.

the 1️⃣ and only.From the World Cup to San Jose. 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁳󠁣󠁴󠁿 Welcome Home and welcome to the @mls, @AngusGunn01 !🏟️ pic.twitter.com/OKzC10JqAO

Saad represented Tunisia at the World Cup, starting two of three Group Stage matches to reach 17 international caps since his 2024 debut.

The winger is in Nashville on loan from German Bundesliga side FC Augsburg through the 2027 MLS Sprint Season.

From the 🔝 flight of Germany to the 🔝 of MLS 🏆We've signed Tunisia international winger Elias Saad on loan from German Bundesliga club FC Augsburg through the 2027 Sprint Season ✍️ pic.twitter.com/wkOK8U1U1j

Turner is fresh off his second consecutive World Cup with the USMNT, starting in Qatar 2022 before making one appearance at the 2026 tournament.

The Revs extended Turner's loan from Olympique Lyon through the end of 2026, with an option to prolong it through 2027 and a subsequent purchase option.

The 2021 MLS Goalkeeper of the Year no longer occupies a DP roster spot.

New Turner edit just dropped 🔥 More of this to come 🧤 pic.twitter.com/RL0v6ktXRh
