TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Trade

SJ receive: Eduard Löwen

STL receive: Up to $925k GAM

The San Jose Earthquakes have acquired midfielder Eduard Löwen from St. Louis CITY SC, the clubs announced Wednesday.

In exchange for the 29-year-old German, St. Louis receive up to $925,000 in General Allocation Money (GAM). There is $425k guaranteed and $500k that's conditional.

Löwen will occupy a Designated Player roster spot in San Jose and is eligible to be bought down. He is under contract through the 2027-28 season.

"Eduard is a proven player in this league with the versatility and experience to make an impact in our midfield," said Earthquakes sporting director and head coach Bruce Arena.

"Beyond what he brings on the field, he’s a great person with strong character and leadership qualities. We’re excited to have him in San Jose and look forward to welcoming him to the club."

Löwen tallied 23g/21a in 99 appearances with St. Louis, whom he joined from German side Hertha BSC ahead of their 2023 expansion season.

In addition to Hertha, Löwen has played for FC Nuremberg, VfL Bochum and FC Augsburg in Germany's top two divisions.

"Decisions like this are never easy, but we are incredibly grateful for everything Edu has given to this club and for the player and person he has shown himself to be throughout his time in St. Louis," said STL sporting director Corey Wray.

"As we continue to evolve the roster, we have had a lot of conversations with Edu and ultimately, we felt this was the right time to find a solution that made sense for him and for the club. We’re all rooting for Edu and wish him nothing but the best in this next chapter."

Löwen joins a San Jose side that's fourth in the Western Conference (33 points) in their second season under Arena. German forward Timo Werner is their other DP.

Led by first-year coach Yoann Damet, St. Louis are sixth in the West (33 points). They also recently transferred DP midfielder Marcel Hartel to Hannover 96 and acquired DP midfielder Carlo Holse from the Turkish Süper Lig.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
