TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Signing

CF Montréal have signed forward Alexis Sánchez as a free agent, the club announced Tuesday.

The Chilean icon is under contract through the 2027 Sprint Season with an option for 2027-28. He will occupy a Designated Player roster spot.

"I am very happy to join CF Montréal and take on this new challenge," said Sánchez.

"I’m grateful to the club for the confidence they’ve shown in me, and I’m eager to put my experience to work so that we can reach our objectives and create memorable moments for our supporters. I’m here to give everything I have for the club and for this city."

Sánchez spent the past 18 seasons in Europe after emerging at South American sides Cobreloa, Colo-Colo and River Plate. He's tallied 215 goals and 154 assists in 788 games and won 20 trophies at club level.

Sánchez most recently played for LaLiga side Sevilla after stops in England with Arsenal and Manchester United, Italy with Inter Milan and Udinese, Spain with FC Barcelona and France with Marseille.

Internationally, Sánchez’s 168 caps and 51 goals are both records for Chile. He featured at the 2010 and 2014 FIFA World Cups and is a two-time Copa América champion (2015, '16).

"The arrival of Alexis Sánchez represents an important step in our sporting project," said Luca Saputo, Montréal's senior director of recruitment and sporting methodology.

"Alexis possesses exceptional technical quality and experience at the highest level of world football. His personality, leadership and competitive mindset fully align with our club’s identity and ambitions. We are of firm belief that he will have an immediate impact both on the field and in the locker room."

Montréal have a history of big-name signings, most notably with Ivorian striker Didier Drogba and Italian defender Alessandro Nesta in the mid-2010s.

Like those past legends, Sánchez will be charged with providing veteran leadership and quality from an esteemed career.

As Sánchez joins Montréal, they are outside the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs field at 14th in the Eastern Conference table (16 points). Philippe Eullaffroy is serving as interim head coach.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
