Matchday 24 is in the books.

What did we learn? Did the games confirm our priors or change the complexion of the league?

Let’s dive into some key takeaways from another weekend of MLS action.

Sometimes, success doesn’t come right away. Though many in Toronto had hoped that Josh Sargent would transform the Reds’ attack from the jump after joining from Norwich City in one of the richest transfer deals in MLS history, the striker managed just two goals before the FIFA World Cup break.

But over the last several games, Sargent has looked exactly like the player Toronto FC had hoped for.

With five goal contributions in his last four matches, including a hat trick in Toronto’s 4-4 draw with Chicago Fire FC on Saturday, the 26-year-old is now firing on all cylinders. Against Chicago, Sargent was the most impactful player on the field. A truly well-rounded striker, the US international showed off his composure in tight spaces, his timing in the box, and his long-range threat en route to his three-goal outing:

Josh Sargent bagged his first MLS hat trick in style 👏 pic.twitter.com/Ww3zxwOwRA

It wasn’t just in front of goal where Sargent dominated, however. With good size and strength, the No. 9 used his body well to create space for Robin Fraser’s team in possession and even proved a threat in transition with his ball carrying. Sargent put in a complete striker’s performance — and that’s exactly what he can be at his best: a complete striker.

It certainly looks like we’re seeing the best version of Sargent right now.

There’s still time for shaking and moving in the Golden Boot presented by Audi race. But as things stand right now, it looks an awful lot like a two-horse race. In one lane, we have Lionel Messi, who’s posted 18 goals for Inter Miami this season. In the other lane, we have Petar Musa, who’s scored the same number for FC Dallas.

That there is even a two-horse race, though, is something of a surprise.

After Messi’s four-goal outburst against CF Montréal on Matchday 23, it looked as if the race for the league’s top-scorer might have come to an end. Not so, it turns out. With his brace to spearhead Dallas’ 4-3 victory over Sporting Kansas City on Saturday, Musa clawed his way back into the competition to get on level terms with Messi.

With his header in the first half, a goal that put Dallas on level terms with the visitors, and the game-winning penalty in second-half stoppage time, Musa once again reminded the viewing public that he shouldn’t be ignored. That FC Dallas were able to keep hold of him amidst his strong league play and his World Cup run with Croatia is monumental to the club’s trophy chances. Sitting fourth in the West, Musa may well keep Dallas in the home playoff positions.

And along the way, Musa could end up claiming that Golden Boot.

Petar Musa scores twice to lead the comeback win for @FCDallas in a 7-goal thriller 💪 pic.twitter.com/GTmrxiFD5C

So much of this season has been a slog for the Five Stripes. Sitting 14th in the Eastern Conference, the table makes it clear that 2026 has been a rough one thus far. And yet? The summer transfer window seems to have breathed real life back into Atlanta United, with two of their most recent additions debuting — and shining — in an impressive 2-2 road draw with Inter Miami on Saturday.

The headliner, of course, was Breel Embolo.

The Swiss striker, who joined from the French top flight for a reported $18 million fee, got the start up top in Tata Martino’s 4-3-3 setup over the weekend. His impact was immediate, scoring a late equalizer from the spot. Embolo’s hold-up play provided a lift to Atlanta’s attack, making it easier for fellow Designated Players Miguel Almirón and Alexey Miranchuk to involve themselves in the game. Drawing a yellow card in the first half and a penalty in the second, Embolo’s physicality proved crucial. Plus, with quality distribution and movement in the box, he provided the sort of outlet Atlanta have lacked.

Just after the hour mark, Embolo was joined by another debutant: Mauricio Amaro. The U22 Initiative No. 6 who joined from Uruguay this summer didn’t seem to need any time to get up to speed in his first taste of MLS action. Press-resistant and rangy, it won’t be long until Amaro is an every-game starter.

With their infusion of quality and just five points back of the final Audi MLS Cup Playoffs spot in the East, don’t rule out a late-season surge from Atlanta United.

When news of Kevin Kelsy’s big-money move to Scottish giants Rangers came down the pipeline, it was, perhaps, easy to think that the Timbers’ season would be derailed. After all, Kelsy was the team’s top scorer with nine goals in just over 1,200 minutes this season — and there was a reason why Rangers were eager to pay an eight-figure fee to get him in the door. Kelsy’s exit left a hole.

It seems, though, that hole has been filled by newcomer Vincent Janssen.

In his very first start up top for Portland after joining in the summer, the Netherlands international bagged the club's first-ever MLS hat trick in a wild 5-4 victory over Minnesota United. After four straight double-digit scoring seasons at Antwerp in Belgium, it’s no surprise that Janssen is already cutting an impressive figure in front of goal. Still, that the veteran offered so much more than that to Martí Cifuentes’ team could prove crucial. With Cifuentes eager to adopt a more proactive possession approach from the sideline, having Janssen’s clever contributions on the ball is immensely valuable.

Against Minnesota, Janssen notched 53 touches in just 68 minutes of play. He was everywhere, creating on the ball to elevate his other attacking teammates. It’s early days, but the Timbers’ new attacking setup clearly has promise. It might have even raised their ceiling.

It was a summer of change for the LA Galaxy.

Gabriel Pec headed back to Brazil, with Chucky Lozano joining from San Diego to replenish the wings. Elsewhere, Kyōgo Furuhashi signed to boost the striker position while former FC Barcelona player Sergi Roberto was added to conduct the midfield in Riqui Puig’s injury absence.

Following an inconsistent start to 2026, it’s easy to see why the Galaxy wanted to shake the snow globe in the transfer market. And after a 2-1 win over a hot New England Revolution team on Walmart Saturday Showdown, signs are pointing to those moves paying off.

While Lozano and Furuhashi had both already been introduced to Greg Vanney’s starting lineup, Roberto made his inaugural start for the Galaxy against New England. Wearing Puig’s old No. 6 shirt, he brought a similar level of press resistance through the middle:

Sergi Roberto spin cycle 😮‍💨🌀 pic.twitter.com/q0B9jCujHW

That on-ball quality shone through on the Galaxy’s second goal, with Roberto deking past the Revolution’s Brooklyn Raines to kickstart the sequence finished off by Robert Taylor:

Robert Taylor scores his FIRST LA GALAXY GOAL 🤩 pic.twitter.com/eEfPsiFqh8

In Roberto, the Galaxy have the sort of midfield conductor who could help them push their way back into the playoff spots — and scare some of their Western Conference foes along the way.
