What a week in MLS.

Nashville SC looked like a Supporters’ Shield winner, Atlanta United spent a massive amount of money on a Designated Player and Evander scored a match-winner for FC Cincinnati. It was truly a week unlike any other.

As always: The Power Rankings are voted on by, give or take, 15 people associated with MLSsoccer.com. The author doesn't decide the rankings, but he does get a little rush out of moving your team down a few spots when he can.

Nashville fell behind 2-1 to Columbus in the second half. They were still trailing in stoppage time. And yet, it always felt like they would get the final word.

They got that and then some when stoppage-time goals from fullbacks Reed Baker-Whiting and Andy Nájar secured a dramatic three points.

There’s an inevitability to Nashville this year, and they're on pace for a single-season points record (79). For those keeping count at home, Inter Miami set the previous record in 2024 (74).

Previous: 3-2 win vs. CLB | Next: 8/29 vs. CIN

After a <a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/mls-regular-season/2026/matches/vanvshou-08-19-2026/" target="_blank">1-0 midweek loss</a> to the <a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/clubs/houston-dynamo-fc/" target="_blank">Houston Dynamo</a>, the <a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/clubs/vancouver-whitecaps-fc/" target="_blank">Whitecaps</a> took out their frustration on a poor FC Dallas, scoring four times in the first half to earn a 5-0 win and retake first place in the West.

On a related note: As good as Nashville have been this year, the underlying numbers like Vancouver more. Much more. Much more than anyone else in the league, in fact.

Take that for what you will.

Previous: 5-0 win vs. DAL | Next: 8/29 at SKC

Chicago picked up four points, but they’ll be kicking themselves for not grabbing six.

The Fire led late at Red Bull New York before conceding an 86th-minute equalizer. Maybe their minds were already on Tuesday night's Leagues Cup quarterfinal meeting with Monterrey.

Previous: 1-1 draw at RBNY | Next: 8/29 at SEA

After Wednesday's huge 1-0 win at Vancouver, Houston stumbled against St. Louis CITY. Saturday's 2-1 loss was their first since returning from the FIFA World Cup break.

Also, Houston are only two points behind first-place Vancouver. And a three-point week against two of the West’s best teams is nothing to complain about. They’re still one of the league’s hottest teams.

Previous: 2-1 loss at STL | Next: 8/29 vs. SJ

There’s a pretty decent chance the last two weeks have ended Inter Miami’s shot at winning a second Supporters’ Shield title.

They followed up their 4-1 loss at Nashville by drawing 2-2 (and getting into a fight) with Philadelphia. Then, they fell 2-1 against a Toronto team that hasn’t done a whole lot of winning lately.

Lionel Messi & Co. are now 10 points behind Nashville in the Shield race.

Previous: 2-1 loss vs. TOR | Next: 8/29 vs. MTL

One of the league’s hottest teams somehow drew with Sporting KC midweek. But St. Louis got back on track over the weekend, snatching a 2-1 win over Houston with a late goal from Dante Polvara.

They’re in great form, but are reportedly about to trade midfielder Eduard Löwen to the San Jose Earthquakes. He’ll be tough to replace, especially after St. Louis just transferred DP midfielder Marcel Hartel to Hannover 96.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. HOU | Next: 8/30 vs. DAL

August hasn’t been kind to LAFC.

The Black & Gold are still looking for their first MLS win of the month after losing 1-0 at Colorado and drawing 1-1 with Portland.

Hopes of ending the year with the Western Conference's No. 1 seed are fading quickly.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. POR | Next: 8/29 at DC

An Alhassan Yusuf hat trick gave the Revs a 3-0 win at D.C. United, then they earned a 1-1 draw against New York City FC to cap a four-point week. That’s just more of the same for a team that keeps finding ways to earn results.

New England are a lock for the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs, especially with new DP Jack Harrison hitting the ground running. He contributed three assists against D.C. and another against NYCFC. Great signing.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. NYC | Next: 8/29 at CLB

On Wednesday, Cincy snuck past NYCFC with – what else? – an Evander winner in second-half stoppage time. He scored again over the weekend, before the Seattle Sounders clawed back to a 1-1 draw.

Evander is up to 13 goals and 11 assists on the season. Since coming to MLS in 2023, he’s scored 55 times and delivered 50 assists. That’s 105 goal contributions in 107 matches. Elite.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. SEA | Next: 8/29 at NSH

Charlotte earned four points after drawing 3-3 at Toronto and powering to a 3-1 win over D.C. United.

They’ll be frustrated to not take all six points after going up a man and up two goals against Toronto. Still, four points and new DP Allan Saint-Maximin’s first start means there's plenty to be happy about.

Previous: 3-1 win vs. DC | Next: 8/29 at ATL

Dallas allowed three goals at Real Salt Lake midweek, but made up for it by scoring four of their own. They couldn’t maintain that pace against Vancouver, as the Whitecaps led 4-0 by the end of the first half.

Fortunately for Dallas, a three-point week kept them within touching distance of everyone but Vancouver in the West. They’re just five points out of second place, and the team's nine-game road trip is nearly over.

Previous: 5-0 loss at VAN | Next: 8/30 at STL

Maybe the loss to Atlanta woke them up?

Minnesota ran riot at San Jose, recovering from allowing an early penalty by scoring five unanswered goals in a 5-1 rout. That’s a stunning outburst for a team that's struggled to score all year.

Also, Joaquín Pereyra's rabona goal was filthy.

Previous: 5-1 win at SJ | Next: 8/29 vs. ORL

It was only a two-point week for the Union, who drew with Inter Miami and Austin FC to push their league unbeaten run to six.

Philly are just three points off the playoff line and probably should be closer. Much of that is because of Cavan Sullivan, who has 1g/3a in his last three MLS matches.

Previous: 1-1 draw at ATX | Next: 8/29 at RBNY

San Diego rebounded with a big 3-0 win vs. Colorado over the weekend, which included new DP winger Elias Achouri's first goal. That result has them just one point below the playoff line.

Are we starting to see signs of last year's historic expansion team?

Previous: 3-0 win vs. COL | Next: 8/29 vs. LA

NYCFC are starting to fall behind the rest of the pack in the East.

They’ve gone winless over four matches, including a loss to Cincy and a draw with New England last week.

Maybe this Matt Freese double-save can spark them forward?

Previous: 1-1 draw at NE | Next: 8/29 at TOR

Portland rolled past San Diego and nearly took all three points against LAFC. So far, the Martí Cifuentes era is going just fine.

There’s work to do, though. They’re above the playoff line in the West, but the Timbers are closer to 13th place than sixth.

Previous: 1-1 draw at LAFC | Next: 8/29 vs. ATX

Nobody had a more mixed bag of a week than Colorado.

They took down LAFC, 1-0, midweek and followed that up with a 3-0 loss at San Diego. That’s not ideal. Still, they've won four of six since returning to play.

They’re sitting above the playoff line at seventh in the West. Even better, they’re technically one spot ahead of rivals RSL.

Previous: 3-0 loss at SD | Next: 8/29 vs. RSL

After Orlando City were unlucky in a 2-1 loss to Chicago, Antoine Griezmann scored twice in a 2-1 win over Real Salt Lake. He's up to three goals and two assists through his first six games.

The Griezmann Effect is real, and it has Orlando back above the playoff line at ninth in the East. We're watching a wild turnaround unfold before our eyes.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. RSL | Next: 8/29 at MIN

A 4-3 loss to Dallas and a 2-1 loss to Orlando made it seven MLS games without a win.

With Zavier Gozo now in the Premier League, it’s fair to be worried about RSL's playoff hopes. They’re sitting eighth in the West, but 11th-place San Diego are just one point behind.

Previous: 2-1 loss at ORL | Next: 8/29 at COL

The Quakes are struggling.

They have one win in their last 11 games, and it's been months since they looked like one of the best teams in the West.

They may still make the playoffs, thanks to a historically strong start, but even that is starting to come into question.

Maybe if Eduard Löwen completes his reported trade from St. Louis, they’ll get back on track?

Previous: 5-1 loss vs. MIN | Next: 8/29 at HOU

RBNY's week began with conceding a 92nd-minute winner against Nashville. They found some redemption later in the week when Cameron Harper equalized in the 86th minute against Chicago.

A one-point week isn’t ideal, but Nashville and Chicago back-to-back is about as tough as a week can get this year. They’re still clinging to a playoff spot… for now.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. CHI | Next: 8/29 vs. PHI

Toronto might have woken up.

They battled back from a 3-1 deficit against Charlotte to earn a draw despite going a man down in the 56th minute. They built on that comeback a few days later, stunning Inter Miami in a 2-1 win.

Toronto have taken eight points from their last four matches. They're equal on points with ninth-place Orlando City.

Previous: 2-1 win at MIA | Next: 8/29 vs. NYC

Despite going down to 10 men in each of their two matches last week, the LA Galaxy still earned four points. That included a 1-0 Cali Clásico win over San Jose.

To add to a solid week, Chucky Lozano made his first start of the season with his new club.

Previous: 2-2 draw at MTL | Next: 8/29 at SD

No points. Six goals allowed. Below the playoff line. Bad week.

Previous: 3-1 loss at CLT | Next: 8/29 vs. LAFC

For the first time since September 2021, Atlanta United have won three straight games.

They may not have truly turned the corner, but last place doesn’t seem to be on the table anymore, and their new big-money signing should be on the field soon.

The reported $18 million transfer for DP striker Breel Embolo is complete and gives Atlanta a needed boost in attack.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. SKC | Next: 8/29 vs. CLT

The week could have gone better.

After allowing a late winner to CF Montréal midweek, they allowed a late equalizer AND a late winner to Nashville on Saturday. Both of those Nashville goals came in stoppage time.

It wasn’t all bad, at least. The Athletic’s Tom Bogert reports that the Crew are close to bringing in former NYCFC attacker Santi Rodríguez before the transfer window closes next week. He was dynamite in MLS before heading to Botafogo in Brazil.

Previous: 3-2 loss at NSH | Next: 8/29 vs. NE

Through four games, CF Montréal are enjoying an undefeated August. They defeated Columbus and drew with the Galaxy en route to four points last week.

They’ve quietly been stacking points since the World Cup break and are only three points below the playoff line.

Previous: 2-2 draw vs. LA | Next: 8/29 at MIA

That's a four-point week for Austin, providing a bit of momentum just in time for their Leagues Cup quarterfinal against Toluca.

Meanwhile, they made a big move for the long term. Khaled El-Ahmad left his role as Minnesota United’s sporting director to take over in Austin.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. PHI | Next: 8/29 at POR

A 1-1 draw at Cincy ended their eight-game losing streak, and a move for Sporting KC striker Dejan Joveljić seems imminent. He's scored wherever he’s been, and the reported $6 million price tag feels like a steal. He should help get things back on track.

Previous: 1-1 draw at CIN | Next: 8/29 vs. CHI

Dejan Joveljić is off to Seattle and Manu García's contract has been “mutually terminated.” That leaves newcomer André Luiz as the only DP left on the roster.

The optimistic view is that Joveljić and García's departures are an instance of going back to go forward.

Previous: 2-1 loss at ATL | Next: 8/29 vs. VAN
