Real Salt Lake are within striking distance of Leagues Cup 2026 glory.

That opportunity didn't escape head coach Pablo Mastroeni, who made 10 changes to his starting XI in Saturday's 2-1 loss to Orlando City, aiming to rest his first-choice group and have them ready for Tuesday's quarterfinal against LIGA MX's Club León at Dick's Sporting Goods Park (10:30 pm | <a href="https://soc.cr/4qqnKhr" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

"Being three games away from hoisting a trophy, we all know MLS is an incredibly difficult league to obtain any trophy," Mastroeni said during Monday's preview press conference.

"And being three games away, and the guys putting themselves in this position, is a moment we can't let \[slip\] from our grasp."

Leagues Cup tickets

RSL have reason to feel confident after an unbeaten Phase One that saw them take seven points from three matches and post an MLS-best +7 goal differential.

After opening with a 5-4 PK shootout loss following a 1-1 draw against powerhouse Tigres UANL, the Claret-and-Cobalt found another gear, cruising past Atlante FC, 4-0, before routing FC Juárez, 3-0, to punch their quarterfinal ticket.

"I think in our last three Leagues Cup games, we played exemplary for 90 minutes," Mastroeni said.

"And I think that's the type of concentration and focus \[we need\]. This game is going to be 95-plus minutes, and my hope is that I'm going to have to rotate quite a few players after this game for the weekend because they are not just physically exhausted, but cognitively spent and emotionally drained. That's what it's going to take to win this game."

That run has RSL believing there could be something bigger on offer as they enter the single-elimination stage.

Rookie attacker Sergi Solans – who's up to 11g/4a in all competitions and fresh off a contract extension – is embracing both the stakes and opportunity.

"There is this feeling that you can win something," Solans said. "We need to be grateful for where we are right now but also need to enjoy the opportunity and look forward."

Maintaining that level won't be easy against a León side that's been among the tournament's most impressive teams.

Los Panzas Verdes were one of two teams to take all nine points in Phase One, joining Chicago Fire FC. They also knocked off two of MLS's top sides with victories over Inter Miami CF and Nashville SC, while also defeating Antoine Griezmann\-led Orlando City.

"It's not just any team. It's a Mexican team that's in great form in their domestic league, has beat up on some MLS teams, and here we are," Mastroeni said. "For me, it's really a test. We're going to have to be at our best in all phases of the game. The duels will be critical transition moments. If we can be top in those areas, we'll have a good chance."

For Mastroeni, setting the tone from the start will be critical as RSL look to take the next step toward a trophy.

"The first 15 minutes will be crucial in this game," he said. "A lot of times it's boxers in the ring and they want to know what they're bringing. Are they bringing heat early? Are they jabbing? Are they waiting for the counterpunch?

"For us, I think it's really important that we're clean and confident in the decisions that we're making with and without the ball in the first 15 minutes to really get into the game."
