Through three matches this season, Vancouver Whitecaps FC remain perfect.

The 'Caps dismantled the Portland Timbers, 4-1, in Saturday's Cascadia Cup rivalry match at Providence Park, led by 2026 FIFA World Cup USMNT hopefuls Sebastian Berhalter, Tristan Blackmon and Brian White.

“These are the kinds of games that you really enjoy,” White said postgame.

“Obviously, Portland has really good support with these fans. It's nice to score a couple of goals and silence the crowd a bit.”

In turn, Vancouver moved to three wins in as many matches, scoring eight goals and conceding just once.

The trio of Berhalter, Blackmon and White, all key contributors to Vancouver’s run to last year’s MLS Cup, each etched their name on the scoresheet in Portland.

White began his campaign for a spot on the USMNT roster this summer early in the match, getting his toe on the end of a Berhalter feed into the six-yard box.

He would eventually cap off the scoring late, bringing his goal total to three on the season.

“As a striker, they're always going to critique you for this or that. I know I can put the ball in the back of the net,” White said.

“It's about staying confident and relaxed and knowing I can help the team win.”

Berhalter and Blackmon, who will also have compelling arguments to make the U.S. squad in a few months, contributed the other two goals.

First, the reigning MLS Defender of the Year latched onto the end of a crafty set piece for his first goal of the season.

“We had a lot of set pieces,” said Whitecaps head coach Jesper Sørensen. “It’s positive and it’s an important thing in football that we’re able to score on set plays.”

Berhalter, for his part, controlled the midfield and scored Vancouver’s third on a slick feed from Aziel Jackson.

Throughout, the Whitecaps had the better of play.

“The way we played is being aggressive and active and not letting the opposition take the game,” Sorensen said. “Get up and press them high and not let them push us back.

"For us, it was stressing them in the build-up. They wanted the same, so it was about who could take control of the game with the ball.”

The Whitecaps, despite a shaky preseason and amid a crowded early-season schedule, are looking closer and closer to the team that rolled through the Western Conference bracket of the 2025 Audi MLS Cup Playoffs.

“It was our strongest performance yet,” praised Sørensen.

Added White: “You can see the continuity and flow coming together."

Vancouver face a quick turnaround this week in another Cascadia rivalry clash, against the Seattle Sounders on Thursday in the Concacaf Champions Cup Round of 16.

“We've got (a few) days off, and now we look forward to that,” said White.
