Canada head coach Jesse Marsch has named his 26-man roster for the 2026 FIFA World Cup, calling up nine MLS players for the momentous tournament on home soil.

Maxime Crépeau - Orlando City

Owen Goodman - Crystal Palace

Dayne St. Clair - Inter Miami CF

Moïse Bombito - OGC Nice

Derek Cornelius - Marseille

Alphonso Davies - Bayern Munich

Luc de Fougerolles - Fulham

Alistair Johnston - Celtic

Alfie Jones - Middlesbrough

Richie Laryea - Toronto FC

Niko Sigur - Hadjuk Split

Joel Waterman - Chicago Fire FC

Ali Ahmed - Norwich City

Tajon Buchanan - Villarreal

Mathieu Choinière - LAFC

Stephen Eustáquio - LAFC

Ismaël Koné - Sassuolo

Liam Millar - Hull City

Jayden Nelson - Austin FC

Jonathan Osorio - Toronto FC

Nathan Saliba - Anderlecht

Jacob Shaffelburg - LAFC

Jonathan David - Juventus

Promise David - Union SG

Cyle Larin - Mallorca

Tani Oluwaseyi - Villarreal

MLS call-ups are bolded above.

NOTE: Jayden Nelson replaced Marcelo Flores due to injury.

June 12: Canada vs. Bosnia & Herzegovina, 3 pm ET | Toronto, Ontario

June 18: Canada vs. Qatar, 6 pm ET | Vancouver, British Columbia

June 24: Canada vs. Switzerland, 3 pm ET | Vancouver, British Columbia

The 2026 World Cup has expanded from the usual 32 nations to 48 total. The top two teams advance from each group, and the top eight third-place finishers also make the knockout phase (Round of 32).

The tournament, which is co-hosted by the United States, Mexico and Canada, spans from June 11 to July 19.

Maxime Crépeau (Orlando) and Dayne St. Clair (Miami) are vying for the starting goalkeeper job.

Defenders Richie Laryea (Toronto) and Joel Waterman (Chicago) will compete at their second World Cup, as will midfielder Jonathan Osorio (Toronto).

LAFC are the most represented club, with midfielder Mathieu Choinière, midfielder Stephen Eustáquio and winger Jacob Shaffelburg all making the roster. Eustáquio is on loan from Portuguese powerhouse FC Porto.

Finally, Austin FC's Jayden Nelson was a late addition following an injury to Tigres midfielder Marcelo Flores.

The squad features 10 MLS alums, highlighted by Vancouver Whitecaps homegrown product and Bayern Munich star Alphonso Davies. He is recovering from injury, as is former Colorado Rapids center back Moïse Bombito.

Center back Derek Cornelius previously featured for Vancouver, and defender Alistair Johnston began his career across Nashville SC and CF Montréal.

Midfielders Ismaël Koné and Nathan Saliba are Montréal products, while wingers Ali Ahmed (Vancouver) and Tajon Buchanan (New England) rose to prominence in MLS.

At striker, Cyle Larin (Orlando) and Tani Oluwaseyi (Minnesota) made their names in MLS before heading to Europe.

Nine players compete in MLS for six different clubs, amounting to roughly 35% of Marsch's team.

Of the 26 players named, another 10 (38%) are either MLS homegrown products or players who developed in MLS.

Combined, those 19 players account for 73% of the CanMNT's World Cup squad.

This will be the CanMNT's third World Cup appearance and first under Marsch.

The former MLS midfielder and head coach was appointed in May 2024; he received a long-term extension ahead of the tournament.

Canada are chasing their first World Cup win or draw, having gone three-and-out during their 1986 and 2022 appearances.
