Another Philadelphia Union victory, another record-setting night for Cavan Sullivan.

The 16-year-old wunderkind made quick work of FC Cincinnati in a 5-0 drubbing on Wednesday night, delivering a trio of assists while combining with older brother Quinn Sullivan (1g/2a) to tie Gonzalo and Federico Higuaín for the MLS record for goal contributions by brothers in a game (six), while setting up a hat trick for striker Bruno Damiani.

The victory extends the Union’s impressive run under interim head coach Ryan Richter, who now boasts a 7W-0L-2D record since the FIFA World Cup break.

For Cavan Sullivan, it continues a torrid run of form since MLS returned from the FIFA World Cup break.

The young American star has racked up nine goal contributions (3g/6a) over a six-match stretch while extending a historic goal contribution streak for his age.

Sullivan’s trio of assists may carry a little more weight following United States head coach Mauricio Pochettino’s comments earlier this week, hinting at calling up "a few" of Philadelphia's youth prospects ahead of the September international window.

Philadelphia's young talent has certainly made their case, given the Union are on a league-record run of 10 consecutive games with a teenager providing a goal contribution.

C. Sullivan ➡️ Q. Sullivan ➡️ Damiani AGAIN 😱 pic.twitter.com/4YUYMQs12z

It was a family affair for the Sullivans as Quinn Sullivan joined in the party, notching a goal and two assists.

It was a huge moment for Quinn, who suffered a season-ending ACL injury in late 2025.

“A weight off my shoulders,” said Quinn of scoring his first goal since returning from injury. “I have definitely wanted one, needed it for myself, for the team. It was awesome.”

For Richter, getting Quinn back firing on all cylinders alongside Cavan is one of the main reasons behind the club's incredible turnaround.

“I am happy for him and to get the goal tonight is another step in the right direction,” said Richter. “I am proud of him. Happy for him and I know that probably felt pretty good, but you can ask him about that.”

Bruno Damani secures his hat-trick in style!4-0 @PhilaUnion! pic.twitter.com/dbtFyNsyBJ

The Sullivans were not the only stars of the night, with Damiani scoring three times to power Philadelphia's rout.

The hat trick moved Damiani within one goal of matching his seven-goal total from the 2025 regular season, with 10 matches remaining in 2026.

“I’m an emotional person, an emotional player. Of course, when things are not going my way, like the team didn’t perform well the first half of the season, I wasn’t happy,” said Damiani.

“I am happy now that things are working, that we are improving, keeping the clean sheet and winning the game. I am also happy for my personal moment too, that I scored a hat trick.”

The Union now take their show on the road to Snapdragon Stadium for a Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire clash with San Diego FC, looking to extend their nine-game unbeaten streak (9 pm ET | Apple TV).
