The stretch run of the MLS regular season has arrived, and Matchday 23 is set to offer plenty of fireworks this weekend.

First, USMNT hopefuls take center stage when Red Bull New York host the Philadelphia Union.

Focus then shifts to a Rocky Mountain Cup clash between rivals Colorado Rapids and Real Salt Lake on Walmart Saturday Showdown, before high-flying St. Louis CITY SC welcome FC Dallas for Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire.

WHEN: Saturday, 7:30 pm ET

WATCH: <a href="https://soc.cr/4i10d4R" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

Curious what the USMNT's 2030 FIFA World Cup roster could look like?

You’re likely to get a glimpse when Red Bull New York host the Philadelphia Union, with two potential future international stars on each side.

For RBNY, teenage homegrowns Julian Hall and Adri Mehmeti have both enjoyed breakout seasons, headlining the youth movement under first-year head coach Michael Bradley. As the club’s leading scorer (9g/5a), Hall was rewarded with a contract extension on Thursday after receiving his first MLS All-Star nod this summer, while Mehmeti (1g/5a) has already established himself as one of the league’s best defensive midfielders.

On the flip side, homegrown phenom Cavan Sullivan has capitalized on increased playing time under interim head coach Ryan Richter. The 16-year-old, who will reportedly join Manchester City in the future, has netted 1g/3a in his last three matches while dragging the Union towards the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs line.

Sullivan has been aided by homegrown center back Neil Pierre, who has also repaid Richter's trust with 3g/1a in six games since the World Cup pause. Pierre stands at 6-foot-7 and has immense potential.

WHEN: Saturday, 9:30 pm ET

WATCH: <a href="https://soc.cr/45R23hj" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

One of Colorado or RSL will end Saturday night by lifting the Rocky Mountain Cup in Matchday 23’s Walmart Saturday Showdown.

The Rapids have held the trophy for the last two seasons and will look to match RSL’s three-year run from 2021-23 with a three-year run of their own. Head coach Matt Wells' men are in incredible form at home, recording four straight wins without conceding a goal.

While the team continues to forge ahead without 18-year-old center back Lucas Herrington, who recently transferred to Premier League side Hull City for a club-record fee, they lean on leading scorer Rafael Navarro (10g/4a) and creative midfielder Paxten Aaronson to lead the way.

Meanwhile, RSL will look to bounce back from falling to Club León in the Leagues Cup quarterfinals on the same Colorado pitch. With recent MLS losses to FC Dallas and Orlando City, the Claret-and-Cobalt find themselves on a three-game skid across all competitions.

Seeking a return to form after transferring winger Zavier Gozo to the Premier League’s Crystal Palace, head coach Pablo Mastroeni will lean on USMNT midfielder Diego Luna (5g/6a) and the hot form of rookie striker Sergi Solans (9g/3a), who recently inked a contract extension.

WHEN: Sunday, 7 pm ET

WATCH: <a href="https://soc.cr/4zDp6d9" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

St. Louis are MLS’s hottest team, riding a league-best 11-game unbeaten streak (8W-0L-3D) into the weekend.

The Midwesterners are coming off a statement 2-1 home win over then-Western Conference-leading Houston Dynamo FC. Simon Becher opened the scoring to reach 10 goal contributions this season (5g/5a), and Dante Polvara netted the late game-winner for his first MLS goal.

St. Louis CITY’s team-first ethos under first-year head coach Yoann Damet is paying dividends, even as the club recently parted ways with star midfielders Marcel Hartel (transfer to Hannover 96) and Eduard Löwen (trade to San Jose Earthquakes). However, with new DP Carlo Holse getting acclimated and several marquee roster spots still open ahead of the Secondary Transfer Window closing on Sept. 2, Damet’s side could potentially get even stronger.

Meanwhile, Dallas are at the tail end of a nine-game road trip dating back to May, due to renovations at Toyota Stadium. They’ve posted a solid 4W-2L-2D record during this stretch, although last Saturday’s 5-0 loss at Vancouver Whitecaps FC took some shine away.

That said, a get-right result at Energizer Park could push Dallas as high as third place in the West table and set them up for success in the lead-up to Decision Day, as they’ll play eight of their 12 remaining games at home.

Petar Musa, the Golden Boot presented by Audi leader (16g/2a) and a 2026 World Cup standout for Croatia, is in the midst of a third-straight season with 15-plus goals. Second-leading scorer Logan Farrington (6g/4a) and top assist provider Joaquín Valiente (1g/8a) contribute more offensive punch for FCD.
