The Leagues Cup 2026 knockout field is set and… well, LIGA MX mostly sent the usual suspects and MLS decided to change things up!

A few surprise stories are unfolding on the MLS side, some with a better chance of continuing than others. The caliber of LIGA MX opponents left won't make it easy.

With eight teams left, here’s who’s got the best shot at a trophy. And remember: MLS teams have won all three prior versions of the tournament. LIGA MX teams are highly motivated to change that.

Leagues Cup tickets

Toluca would have topped this list regardless of who they drew in the bracket. They’ve won just about everything over the last couple of years.

In 2025, they won Clausura, Apertura and Campeón de Campeones titles in LIGA MX. This summer, they capped off that run with a 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup title. It’s just bad practice to bet against them until proven otherwise.

Austin are the tournament's surprise team. Toluca are favored in that quarterfinal. They’ll be favored against whoever comes out of RSL\-León, too. They’re just three matches away from completing their trophy set, and at least two of the games are very winnable.

Club América will have their hands full with a Columbus Crew team that seems to be figuring things out at an exponentially increasing speed. But they’re still going in as favorites against a team fighting for an Audi MLS Cup Playoffs spot.

That matchup, and the fact they don’t really play road games thanks to their massive fanbase, is enough to put Las Águilas firmly among the trophy contenders.

Chicago's quarterfinal matchup is just good writing.

They transferred Hugo Cuypers to Monterrey a couple of weeks ago, shortly after signing Polish legend Robert Lewandowski. Now, when they face Monterrey, Chicago will go up against their former striker (and former MLS Golden Boot race leader) almost immediately after.

Still, they’ll be slight favorites at home. And, yeah, that Lewandowski guy is still pretty good. Chicago may have to take down a few LIGA MX giants along the way, but they’ve got the best chance of any MLS side to do it.

By pretty much any measure, they’re the best team MLS has left in the mix.

It’s been five years since Monterrey won their last Concacaf Champions Cup title. They aren’t the same continental powerhouse that won five CCCs from 2011 to 2021. It’s hard to even call them a LIGA MX powerhouse right now, with just one league title (Apertura 2019) in the last decade.

But, c’mon, it still feels uncomfortable to think about counting Rayados out.

They have Hugo Cuypers at striker! What team wouldn’t want Hugo Cuypers at striker? They have Diego Rossi as an attacking midfielder! What team wouldn’t want Diego Rossi as an attacking midfielder?

They’ve spent plenty of cash on the rest of the roster, too. There’s enough talent there to win this whole thing.

The Crew are looking a lot like The Crew again lately.

They rolled through Phase One with wins over Atlas and Pachuca, then outlasted Pumas in penalties. In their two league games before the tournament, they took down FC Cincinnati and drew with Inter Miami. They’re getting results, and they’re playing with aesthetics that (at least) remind you of the Wilfried Nancy-era Crew. Interim head coach Laurent Courtois has done solid work to get them back on track.

It helps that the Crew front office might have flexed again. New DP midfielder Brais Méndez has immediately looked like a Best XI-caliber player since arriving from Real Sociedad. There were plenty of reasons to question their decision to move Diego Rossi to Monterrey, but Columbus may have just struck gold again anyway. What, like it’s hard?

Still, they’ve got maybe the toughest path. It’s Club América to start, then the winner of Chicago-Monterrey before the final.

No Gozo, no problem. At least so far.

Even with Zavier Gozo reportedly on his way to Crystal Palace, RSL navigated past Phase One. Although we should note they didn’t exactly encounter a gauntlet. Wins over Atlante and Juárez, plus a draw with Tigres, have them in the quarterfinals.

Their path to the final isn’t as favorable. They’ll face Club León in a winnable quarterfinal matchup before they’ll likely see Toluca in the semifinals.

RSL are a solid, well-drilled team that could, in theory, pull off a trophy run. It’s just hard to envision it while they learn to navigate life without Gozo.

León are by far the most surprising LIGA MX side to make it here. But my goodness, did they do it in style.

Games against Inter Miami, Nashville and Orlando City would have derailed most teams. Instead, they took all nine points. Yeah, there was some lineup rotation for the MLS sides. That’s still an impressive run and should have León supporters feeling optimistic after difficult Apertura and Clausura campaigns last year.

That being said, they’ll have to play at altitude against RSL, then might have Toluca waiting for them in the semifinals. They cruised through Phase One, but things aren’t going to get any easier. That’s enough to push them lower on this list.

It doesn’t make much sense to see Austin here during a down year.

But, hey, Myrto Uzuni got hot in Phase One and delivered 4g/1a. With their Albanian forward leading the way, Austin took care of business against Xolos and Puebla and even managed a draw against América. That’s all it took for them to make the quarterfinals.

Now, Toluca are waiting for them in the next round. Crazier things have happened, but they’ve got a tall task ahead of them.
