Global legends clash Wednesday night when Robert Lewandowski and Chicago Fire FC welcome Lionel Messi and Inter Miami CF in a marquee match between Eastern Conference elite.

Standings

Last game

Chicago made it six straight unbeaten and three draws in a row after playing to a wild 4-4 goalfest at Toronto FC.

Maren Haile-Selassie scored a brace, and Lewandowski contributed 1g/1a, but Toronto winger Derrick Etienne Jr.'s 92nd-minute golazo denied Chicago all three points.

Players to watch

Need to know

Lewandowski highlights an active summer transfer window for Chicago, who also brought in defender Noah Allen on loan from Miami and acquired additional European-based reinforcements (Anzor Mekvabishvili, Johan Gómez and Andreas Hanche-Olsen).

They're the newest pieces of an ambitious project under director of football and head coach Gregg Berhalter, who took over ahead of 2025 and guided the club back to the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs for the first time since 2017.

Standings

Last game

Messi broke another MLS record in his first game since retiring from the Argentina national team.

The legendary No. 10 tallied two assists during Inter Miami's 2-2 home draw against Atlanta United to reach 18g/12a on the season, becoming the first player in league history with at least 30 goal contributions in three separate campaigns.

Fellow superstars Casemiro and Luis Suárez scored for the Herons, but they settled for a point after Breel Embolo tallied a late penalty-kick goal for Atlanta on his MLS debut.

Players to watch

Need to know

Inter Miami are looking to find another gear in their quest to become the first back-to-back MLS Cup champions since the 2011-12 LA Galaxy.

With Messi, Suárez & Co. firing on all cylinders and new head coach Kily González set to take the reins in the coming days, the defending champions hope to find their form as the stretch run approaches.

Download Polymarket: $50 Bonus with code MLS50

Chicago are favored at home with 45% of the market, compared to 34% for Miami. Further, a draw has a 22% chance.

Market insights shared are current as of Tuesday, Sept. 8 at 9:30 am ET.
