Antoine Griezmann spent years admiring Major League Soccer and its stars from afar, following the league’s progress as he developed into a generational forward.

On Tuesday, the 2018 FIFA World Cup winner officially committed to playing in MLS with Orlando City, who completed a blockbuster transfer with LaLiga giants Atlético Madrid.

In the French star's first interview since signing a contract that formally begins in July, he explained the decision behind a move that was years in the making.

Griezmann regularly tuned into MLS as far back as 2018, the year good friend and former Real Sociedad teammate Carlos Vela debuted with then-expansion side LAFC.

The former Mexican international became a Black & Gold and MLS icon, breaking the league’s single-season goal (34) and goal contributions (49) records in 2019 before helping the club to the 2022 MLS Cup-Supporters’ Shield double and 2024 US Open Cup title.

“It’s kind of what I want to do myself,” Griezmann said of the 2019 Landon Donovan MLS MVP and LAFC co-owner. “He was very important for the league, for his team.

“He won everything, and he’s someone who I admired a lot playing in Los Angeles. And I want to reach his level as closely as possible – everything he gave, what he won with his club, and on a personal level.”

Griezmann’s appreciation for MLS stars went beyond personal ties, however.

The 2018 World Cup winner idolizes David Beckham, the England and Manchester United legend whose transformative 2007 arrival forever changed the soccer landscape in the United States.

“He’s my childhood hero,” the Frenchman said of the two-time MLS Cup winner with the LA Galaxy and current Inter Miami CF co-owner.

“And he’s why I wear the No. 7.”

Griezmann-to-MLS speculation has circulated for several transfer windows, without ever getting past the rumor stage.

So, what motivated Atlético Madrid’s all-time leading scorer to take the plunge with Orlando City?

“I think the moment is now, for all the effort Orlando put into signing me,” he said. “For the relationship and good feelings I had with Ricardo \[Moreira, Orlando City general manager and sporting director\] at my home in Madrid. For the club’s project, the players and the fans. I think now’s the time.”

At Orlando, Griezmann becomes the club’s latest global superstar signing, following Brazilian midfielder Kaka (2015-17) and Portuguese winger Nani (2019-21).

“I think it’s important for players of that stature to play in the league to give it exposure, to motivate youngsters to want to be like them,” Griezmann said.

“Hopefully I can leave a good image, a good legacy here in Orlando and in MLS, and win that trophy \[MLS Cup\] that I’ve been wanting for a long time.”

For Griezmann, the biggest appeal of his soon-to-be new league is arguably the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs, which he likens to the NBA’s postseason.

“The playoffs are tough,” he noted. “The playoffs are kind of like the NBA: anybody can lose, anything can happen.”

However, Griezmann's knowledge of American sports goes far beyond playoff formats.

"I’m a big fan of the \[the NFL's\] Kansas \[City Chiefs\], of \[Patrick\] Mahomes. In baseball, I’m a fan of Seattle \[Mariners\], Julio Rodríguez. And in the NBA, I’m a fan of the Brooklyn Nets and a rookie, a French player: Nolan Traoré."

Now that he's about to call Orlando home, expect Griezmann to dive even deeper into the country's sporting culture.

"I’m a big fan of American sports," Griezmann said. "I still haven’t gotten into hockey, but being here, I’ll start following it."
