What a week in MLS.

The Philadelphia Union rallied back from a 2-0 deficit, Petar Musa scored for FC Dallas, and Nashville SC dominated at home. It was truly a week unlike any other.

As always: The Power Rankings are voted on by, give or take, 15 people associated with MLSsoccer.com. The author does not decide the rankings, but he does get a little rush out of moving your team in particular down a few spots when he can.

It’s far too early to call the Supporters' Shield race……HOWEVER!

Nashville are the clear favorite after steamrolling Inter Miami on Saturday night. They put four past the Herons, largely thanks to a Hany Mukhtar brace and Elias Saad's two assists. Nashville are now five points ahead of Inter Miami with 15 games left.

Through 19 games, they’ve only allowed 15 goals. Major League Soccer's best defense and one of the league’s best collections of match-winners have their floor set higher than anyone else. It’s hard to see them dropping too many points the rest of the way.

Previous: 4-1 win vs. MIA | Next: 8/19 at RBNY

The Whitecaps allowed four shots against Seattle, and none were on target. They were in total control during a 2-0 win. It’s their first victory since the FIFA World Cup break and first since Sebastian Berhalter was transferred to Middlesbrough.

Previous: 2-0 win at SEA | Next: 8/19 vs. HOU

Bad week for the defending champions.

Inter Miami exited Leagues Cup in Phase One for the first time, and then Nashville handed them a beatdown in the regular season. In a matchup between the first- and second-place teams in the Supporters’ Shield standings, the Herons were well off the pace in a 4-1 defeat.

They’re not out of the race, but a five-point gap feels like a wide one against this Nashville side.

Previous: 4-1 loss at NSH | Next: 8/19 at PHI

Early goals from Robin Lod and Djé D’Avilla sealed a mostly straightforward 2-1 win over Portland. The Fire lead the middle of the pack in the Eastern Conference by points and, for most folks, by the eye test.

Big note here: The win made it five straight in all competitions for Chicago. It had been a while.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. POR | Next: 8/19 at ORL

Uhhhhh so, have you checked the standings lately?

The Dynamo are second in the West and on pace for their best-ever regular season (1.84 points per game; 62 overall).

Now, we do have to be a bit of a bummer and point out that three of their last four wins have come against the three teams at the bottom of the West standings.

The Dynamo are about to get a chance to prove themselves, though. Their next three matches are at Vancouver, at red-hot St. Louis, and at home against San Jose. Positive results there will go a long way toward convincing folks that they’re a true contender.

Previous: 1-0 win vs. LA | Next: 8/19 at VAN

After their first loss since the FIFA World Cup break, LAFC are looking up at both Houston and Vancouver in the race for the top spot in the West.

They're in a real battle for a home Audi MLS Cup Playoffs spot, as well.

Previous: 1-0 loss vs. SD | Next: 8/19 at COL

St. Louis haven’t lost since May 3. Yeah, there was a little break in between there, but that’s still nine games unbeaten.

Their latest result is arguably the most impressive of the bunch. They pummeled San Jose in a 3-1 road victory. And they did it without Marcel Hartel, who was transferred to Hannover 96 last week.

Yoann Damet’s case for being the Sigi Schmid Coach of the Year is as good as anyone’s right now.

Previous: 3-1 win at SJ | Next: 8/19 at SKC

Petar Musa’s game-winner pushed Dallas past Austin, and now they’re just seven points behind first-place Vancouver in the West. A home playoff spot is very much in reach.

If Musa keeps scoring (he almost definitely will), they’re going to keep putting pressure on the teams above them. He’s up to 14 goals on the season. That’s good for the Golden Boot presented by Audi lead.

Previous: 2-1 win at ATX | Next: 8/19 at RSL

A 1-1 draw at Orlando kept Cincy in the middle of the pack in the East. Pavel Bucha scored his fifth goal of the year and is quietly having a fantastic season. Only Kévin Denkey and Evander have more goal contributions for Cincy this season.

Previous: 1-1 draw at ORL | Next: 8/19 vs. NYC

Charlotte had as good a weekend as they could have hoped for. They rolled to a 3-1 win over Columbus, and new DP attacker Allan Saint-Maximin made his MLS debut. They’re comfortably in a playoff spot, and Saint-Maximin raises their ceiling in a post-Wilfried Zaha world.

Previous: 3-1 win vs. CLB | Next: 8/19 at TOR

Sometimes the ball goes in. Sometimes it doesn’t.

That’s all you can really say about the Revs after last weekend's visit to Toronto. New England outshot the hosts 24-3 and fell 2-1. Mean sport. Very mean.

Previous: 2-1 loss at TOR | Next: 8/19 at DC

It had to happen sometime.

Rising superstar Zavier Gozo is on his way to Crystal Palace in the Premier League. The move will net RSL a reported $15 million fee, a club record. That deadens the blow a little bit, but good luck to any team trying to replace a young talent like Gozo. Their ceiling is lower without him.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. MIN | Next: 8/19 vs. DAL

We’ve mentioned it once or twice recently, but man, Cavan Sullivan is making The Leap™.

Cavan looked outstanding in Philadelphia’s comeback 3-2 win over NYCFC, notching two assists to give him six on the year. He’s become a focal point under interim head coach Ryan Richter, and it’s paying off for everyone.

The Union have won all four league matches since the World Cup break and are speeding back into the playoff race.

Previous: 3-2 win at NYC | Next: 8/19 vs. MIA

New York City FC took a 2-0 lead at home into halftime against Philadelphia. It didn’t last. Philly scored three in the second half, and NYCFC left empty-handed. It’s the kind of result teams tend to regret when looking at the final standings.

Previous: 3-2 loss vs. PHI | Next: 8/19 at CIN

You can’t hold a 3-1 loss to St. Louis against them too much; St. Louis are on a heater. But you can definitely be concerned about the Earthquakes.

San Jose are winless through their first four matches since the break and have only won once in their last nine MLS matches.

They can at least take some solace in Niko Tsakiris returning from injury. The No. 10 played 45 minutes in last weekend's loss, his first minutes since early May.

Previous: 3-1 loss vs. STL | Next: 8/19 at LA

Martí Cifuentes’ debut as Portland head coach got off to a tough start. The Timbers went down 2-0 to Chicago in the first 14 minutes and were unable to close the gap from there. They’re sitting 10th in the West.

Previous: 2-1 loss at CHI | Next: 8/19 vs. SD

After largely getting outplayed by CF Montréal, D.C. United earned a draw thanks to Tai Baribo. He’s up to 12 goals in 15 starts this year, and the Black-and-Red are holding onto the final playoff spot in the East.

Previous: 1-1 draw at MTL | Next: 8/19 vs. NE

The league’s youngest team took an early 1-0 lead on last-place Atlanta United, but was outplayed the rest of the way. Eventually, Atlanta earned their first win in months.

With matchups ahead against Nashville and Chicago, the Red Bulls could have really used what should have been three points.

Previous: 2-1 loss at ATL | Next: 8/19 vs. NSH

Colorado have largely taken care of business since returning to play, winning three of four since the World Cup break and building some momentum heading into a huge stretch for their playoff hopes.

This comes amid Lucas Herrington's club-record transfer (reportedly up to $23 million!) to English Premier League side Hull City. That's the largest outgoing fee for a defender in MLS history.

How do they reinvest the Herrington money? This team could make some serious moves before the summer transfer window ends.

Previous: 2-0 win vs. SKC | Next: 8/19 vs. LAFC

Anders Dreyer’s 89th-minute penalty delivered a massive 1-0 win over LAFC. San Diego are now just one point below the playoff line.

With Chucky Lozano officially with the Galaxy and new DP signing Elias Achouri getting settled, it feels like sunlight might be starting to break through San Diego’s cloudy sophomore season.

Previous: 1-0 win at LAFC | Next: 8/19 at POR

Joaquín Pereyra scored late to earn Minnesota a 1-1 comeback draw against RSL. Since the break, they've now drawn three times and lost once in their four matches.

Previous: 1-1 draw at RSL | Next: 8/19 vs. ATL

Tyrese Spicer bullied his way to a goal, and Orlando earned a 1-1 draw against FC Cincinnati. They’re still on the outside looking in at the playoff spots in the East.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. CIN | Next: 8/19 vs. CHI

Last weekend's trip to Charlotte didn’t go well, but the Crew are now focused on bigger things.

The 2024 Leagues Cup winners are back in the quarterfinals after advancing out of Phase One. They took down Atlas, Pachuca and Pumas to do it. Along the way, we got an extended look at new DP (and Diego Rossi replacement) Brais Méndez.

Yet again, it feels like the Crew may have hit big on a DP deal. He’s already piled up three goals and an assist in just five appearances.

Previous: 3-1 loss at CLT | Next: 8/19 vs. MTL

Chucky Lozano (!) made his Galaxy debut over the weekend, but he couldn’t help them avoid a 1-0 loss to Houston.

Lozano’s arrival in LA is the latest chapter in a wild saga that saw him completely removed from the team in San Diego. In theory, he can be a critical piece for the Galaxy as they try to replace Gabriel Pec. There’s some risk here, though.

Previous: 1-0 loss at HOU | Next: 8/19 vs. SJ

Sometimes you have to get lucky before you can get good.

Toronto certainly caught a break or two in their 2-1 win over New England on Saturday. They took just three shots and only put one on target.

To be fair, new midfielder Niklas Dorsch did a heckuva job putting it on target.

Their other goal came via an own goal. It counts all the same. And it means a little more when it ends a 12-game winless streak.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. NE | Next: 8/19 vs. CLT

Austin have a chance to rescue their season over the next few weeks. They’re the surprise team of Leagues Cup and have advanced to the quarterfinals. They won't be favored against Toluca, but, hey… they’re just three wins away from a trophy.

Previous: 2-1 loss vs. DAL | Next: 8/19 at SEA

Seattle need to get healthy. Until then, they desperately need to cobble together some answers in attack. They’re 29th among 30 teams in goals scored this season. Only Sporting KC have scored fewer.

Previous: 2-0 loss vs. VAN | Next: 8/19 vs. ATX

CF Montréal were the better side against D.C. United, but it didn’t translate to a win.

They’re still looking for their first win since May 9. Maybe Alexis Sánchez will be available to help them get that win soon. Yes, that Alexis Sánchez.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. DC | Next: 8/19 at CLB

Atlanta United have won a professional soccer match. It took 105 days for them to do it. But hey, they looked relatively competent in last weekend's 2-1 victory over New York.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. RBNY | Next: 8/19 at MIN

There's been some musical chairs on the DP front. Manu García was bought out, and then Sporting KC completed a club-record deal for winger André Luiz.

What other moves does the league's last-place team have in the works?

Previous: 2-0 loss at COL | Next: 8/19 vs. STL
