Belgium flipped the script with a four-goal second half to defeat the United States, 5-2, in a key 2026 FIFA World Cup preparation match at Atlanta United's Mercedes-Benz Stadium on Saturday afternoon.

The USMNT, whose five-match unbeaten streak was snapped, will look to rebound against Portugal on Tuesday in Atlanta in the penultimate international window before this summer's World Cup.

It was a strong start for the United States, who took a deserved lead in the 39th minute when Weston McKennie tapped in an Antonee Robinson corner kick.

Belgium leveled just before halftime as Zeno Debast corralled a long rebound of a Matt Turner save and fired a low blast past the New England Revolution goalkeeper from distance.

Thanks to Jérémy Doku’s influence, Belgium, No. 9 in the world in the latest FIFA rankings, took control of the match after halftime, taking a 2-1 lead in the 53rd minute courtesy of Amadou Onana.

Charles De Ketelaere struck from the penalty spot six minutes later after Charlotte FC defender Tim Ream was ruled, following Video Review, to have handled the ball. And Dodi Lukébakio added a left-footed golazo in the 68th minute before making it a brace eight minutes from full time.

A USMNT silver lining came via an 87th-minute goal from former Charlotte FC star Patrick Agyemang.

39' - USA - Weston McKennie | WATCH

45' - BEL - Zeno Debast | WATCH

53' - BEL - Amadou Onana | WATCH

59' - BEL - Charles De Ketelaere (PK) | WATCH

68' - BEL - Dodi Lukébakio | WATCH

82' - BEL - Dodi Lukébakio | WATCH

87' - USA - Patrick Agyemang | WATCH

Lineups

THE BIG PICTURE: In a match that had a World Cup vibe to it, the United States played well for most of the first half, but were outmatched after halftime in a disappointing defeat. It puts that much more emphasis on a showdown with Portugal on Tuesday at Mercedes-Benz Stadium.

MOMENT OF THE MATCH: After leveling just before halftime, Belgium flexed their muscles in the second half, starting with this goal from Amadou Onana.

MAN OF THE MATCH: He didn't get on the scoresheet, but there was no denying Jérémy Doku's influence on the match. The Manchester City star gave the USMNT fits and was instrumental in helping Belgium take over in the second half.

USA: Tuesday, March 31 vs. Portugal | 7 pm ET | International friendly

BEL: Tuesday, March 31 vs. Mexico | 9 pm ET | International friendly
