MLS returned from the Leagues Cup break with a bang, and stars delivered top performances to make Matchday 20's Team of the Matchday presented by Audi.

Starters: Sean Johnson (DC) - Andrew Gutman (CHI), Lalas Abubakar (DAL), Reggie Cannon (COL) - Elias Saad (NSH), Djé D'Avilla (CHI), Niklas Dorsch (TOR), Cavan Sullivan (PHI) - Simon Becher (STL), Bruno Damiani (PHI), Hany Mukhtar (NSH)

Coach: B.J. Callaghan (NSH)

Bench: CJ Dos Santos (SD), Dante Polvara (STL), Andy Nájar (NSH), Tristan Muyumba (ATL), Joaquín Pereyra (MIN), Liel Abada (CLT), Guilherme (HOU), Thomas Müller (VAN), Petar Musa (DAL)

Nashville SC extended their lead atop the Supporters' Shield race courtesy of two goals from Hany Mukhtar, who linked up with summer signing Elias Saad (two assists) to lead a 4-1 victory over Eastern Conference foes Inter Miami CF. Head coach B.J. Callaghan's side are now five points clear of the Herons.

Cavan Sullivan came up clutch for the Philadelphia Union, sparking a stunning second-half comeback to beat New York City FC, 3-2, with a pair of assists. That includes unselfishly setting up the first of Bruno Damiani's game-winning brace.

Chicago Fire FC notched their fifth consecutive victory across all competitions, 2-1 over the Portland Timbers, behind an opening goal created by Andrew Gutman's sensational long-ball assist and Dje D'Avilla's game-winning strike from just outside the box.

Similarly, new Toronto FC midfielder Niklas Dorsch helped the Reds snap a 12-game winless streak in league play with his first MLS goal, a gorgeous long-range curler that proved to be the winner in a 2-1 victory over the New England Revolution.

By the same scoreline, Lalas Abubakar headed home his first goal of the season for FC Dallas, opening the scoring in a 2-1 Copa Tejas triumph at Austin FC. Reggie Cannon matched that output, heading home from a corner in the Colorado Rapids' 2-0 victory over Sporting Kansas City.

Meanwhile, St. Louis CITY SC continued to climb the Western Conference table as Simon Becher bagged a brace to extend the club's nine-game league unbeaten streak in a 3-1 win at the San Jose Earthquakes.

Finally, D.C. United goalkeeper Sean Johnson produced an impressive six saves to secure a 1-1 draw at CF Montréal, only conceding a penalty kick goal.
