Ranging from the Philadelphia Union's teenage phenoms to Inter Miami CF's global icons, stars proved age is just a number and earned their spot on Matchday 23's Team of the Matchday presented by Audi.

Starters: Brian Schwake (NSH) - Casemiro (MIA), Neil Pierre (PHI), Reggie Cannon (COL) - Allan Saint-Maximin (CLT), Carles Gil (NE), Hany Mukhtar (NSH), Cavan Sullivan (PHI) - Antoine Griezmann (ORL), Dejan Joveljić (SEA), Lionel Messi (MIA)

Coach: B.J. Callaghan (NSH)

Bench: Hugo Lloris (LAFC), Oleksandr Svatok (ATX), Mamadou Fofana (NE), Thomas Müller (VAN), Nicolás Fernández Mercau (NYC), Anders Dreyer (SD), Robert Lewandowski (CHI), Sam Surridge (NSH), Kelvin Yeboah (MIN)

A hat trick wasn't enough for Lionel Messi in Inter Miami's 7-1 demolition of CF Montréal, as the Argentine legend hit the back of the net four times, including a pair of free kicks, to leap into the Golden Boot presented by Audi lead (18 goals) while becoming the fastest player in league history to record 20 multi-goal games (72 matches). Summer signing Casemiro also netted his first Inter Miami goal and impressed while dropping into a center-back role.

Philly wunderkind Cavan Sullivan kept his red-hot form rolling in the Union's 3-1 victory at Red Bull New York, scoring to tie Freddy Adu's record for the most goal contributions by a 16-year-old or younger in a single MLS season (10). Fellow teenage homegrown Neil Pierre put the cherry on top with yet another set-piece goal, the center back's fourth tally in seven games.

Supporters' Shield leaders Nashville SC continued their quest for the single-season points record with a dominant 4-0 rout of FC Cincinnati. Head coach B.J. Callaghan's side was paced by a goal and assist from captain Hany Mukhtar and six saves from goalkeeper Brian Schwake.

The Antoine Griezmann effect at Orlando City wrote another chapter in the Lions' 3-3 draw at Minnesota United FC, as the Frenchman scored a decisive goal before rescuing a point with a sensational second-half stoppage-time assist.

Four days after his blockbuster move to Seattle Sounders FC, striker Dejan Joveljić helped secure a 2-2 draw against Chicago Fire FC with a brace during his club debut.

Allan Saint-Maximin similarly added his first Charlotte FC goal contributions since joining as the club's newest DP last month, providing two assists in a 2-0 victory at Atlanta United.

Then on Sunday, New England Revolution captain Carles Gil (1g/2a) joined elite company, contributing to all three goals in a 3-1 win over the Columbus Crew en route to becoming the 20th player in MLS history to record 150+ goal contributions.

Finally, Reggie Cannon scored the lone goal in the Colorado Rapids' 1-0 triumph over rivals Real Salt Lake, ensuring the Rocky Mountain Cup remains in Commerce City for a third straight season.
