Austin FC have appointed Khaled El-Ahmad as chief soccer officer and sporting director, placing the experienced global football executive in charge of the club’s soccer operations.

El-Ahmad most recently served as chief soccer officer and sporting director for Minnesota United FC and brings nearly two decades of experience across MLS, European football and City Football Group.

In his new role, El-Ahmad will oversee all functions of Austin FC’s soccer operations, including roster construction and management, scouting and recruitment, player development, and the club’s complete player pathway from the academy through Austin FC II to the first team.

"We are thrilled to welcome Khaled and his family to Austin FC," said Austin FC chairman, majority owner and founder Anthony Precourt. "Throughout our search, Khaled distinguished himself through his global experience, deep understanding of Major League Soccer, and the clarity of his vision for how a modern sporting organization should operate.

"He has demonstrated an ability to identify and develop talent, construct competitive rosters and build strong teams of people around a common purpose. His collaborative leadership style, disciplined and data-informed approach to decision-making, and commitment to building sustainable success strongly align with the ambitions of Austin FC. We believe Khaled is the right leader to guide the next chapter of our sporting organization."

Jim Curtin, previously announced as Austin FC’s next head coach, will report directly to El-Ahmad when he joins the club following their 2026 season.

El-Ahmad will work closely with Curtin to establish a shared sporting vision and create an environment where coaching, recruitment and player development are fully aligned.

“Joining Austin FC is an exciting opportunity, and I’m grateful to Anthony, Andy \[Loughnane\] and the ownership group for the trust they have placed in me and my family,” said El-Ahmad. “Austin FC is a club in one of the most dynamic cities in the country, with passionate supporters, significant ambition and the foundation to build something that can be successful for a long time.

“My responsibility is bigger than building a roster. It is to help build a sporting organization with a clear identity, strong people, aligned processes and a relentless commitment to improving every day. Sustainable success comes from having talented people working together, making good decisions consistently, and creating an environment where players and staff can perform at their best and continue to improve every day.

“I’m excited to listen and learn, then work alongside Jim, our sporting staff and everyone across the club to establish a clear way forward. We want to be ambitious, we want to be brave, and we want to build an Austin FC that this city and our supporters can be proud of – and that competes consistently for trophies.”

Austin's reset began in mid-May when they parted ways with head coach Nico Estévez and sporting director Rodolfo Borrell.

At Minnesota, Hank Stebbins will serve as the club’s interim sporting director following El-Ahmad's departure. Stebbins has served as head of recruitment, roster strategy and negotiation.

READ MORE: <a href="https://www.austinfc.com/news/austin-fc-names-khaled-el-ahmad-chief-soccer-officer-and-sporting-director" target="_blank">El-Ahmad's career background</a>
