With the FIFA World Cup in the rearview mirror, MLS and LIGA MX back underway and myriad European leagues kicking off their 2026-27 campaigns, the global transfer market’s summer window is wide open, and there’s already been plenty of business involving MLSers.

August can be relentlessly hectic in this department, and the pace is expected to throttle upwards right up until MLS's summer window closes on Sept. 2, so it can be tough to keep track of the major developments.

Allow us to provide you with the tl;dr of major recent outgoings, which include two of the league's young stars heading to the Premier League and several USMNT players on the move.

It’s the type of deal dreams are made of, and a case study for MLS player development. Real Salt Lake starlet Zavier Gozo is bound for the English Premier League, with Crystal Palace shelling out a reported $15 million fee to acquire one of North America’s most talented youngsters.

Still just 19 years old, Gozo turned heads as 6g/5a in 16 league matches earned him an MLS All-Star nod after tallying 4g/3a last season.

Quick, aggressive and skillful, the RSL homegrown rose through MLS NEXT and MLS NEXT Pro before becoming a first-team regular about 15 months ago, then contributed to the United States’ quarterfinal run at the 2025 FIFA U-20 World Cup last autumn.

That steep upward trajectory drew interest from a laundry list of big European clubs. Yet Palace – already home to one prominent Yank in FC Dallas product Chris Richards – won the race, the South Londoners flying high off two major trophies, the 2025 FA Cup and the 2026 UEFA Conference League, in the last two years.

Gozo’s been so dynamic in his new wingback role at RSL that several prominent pundits even advocated for him to be fast-tracked into Mauricio Pochettino’s senior USMNT squad for this summer's World Cup, so he may well get to compete for minutes at Palace right away.

RSL sporting director Kurt Schmid on Gozo's path

Another EPL side has done some splashy Stateside shopping as well, and on an even younger prospect.

Newly-promoted Hull City have sent a jaw-dropping sum likely to exceed $20 million to the Colorado Rapids for 18-year-old Australian international Lucas Herrington, among the biggest transfer fees in MLS history and the largest ever for a defender.

As <a href="https://www.thetransferflow.com/p/what-should-you-spend-if-relegation-is-nearly-certain" target="_blank">The Transfer Flow</a> noted, the lanky center back’s underlying numbers in his 18 league appearances for Colorado are outstanding, and his displays for Australia this summer – where he became the youngest World Cup starter in program history – certainly passed the eye test (even if we, like Thierry Henry and others around the globe, are still surprised the Socceroos coaching staff put him in the challenging position of taking a decisive penalty kick in their Round-of-32 defeat to Egypt).

Whether the 2026 MLS All-Star slots right in with the Yorkshire club or goes out on loan, it’s a massive move for Herrington – and an amazing windfall for the Rapids, who could use it on reinforcements to climb the Western Conference table under first-year head coach Matt Wells.

Don't forget: Herrington debuted for Colorado just six months ago. They acquired him in August 2025 on a pre-contract from A-League side Brisbane Roar FC, reportedly shelling out less than $1 million to secure the youngster. Talk about quite the rapid rise, and quite the bit of transfer business by club president Padraig Smith & Co.

Scroll through Middlesbrough FC's roster, and if you’re a regular MLS watcher, you’ll notice a few familiar names.

Look, there’s Columbus Crew homegrown product Aidan Morris and Charlotte FC alum Adilson Malanda (real CLT hardcores will also spot Riley McGree, the Australian winger who was one of The Crown’s first-ever signings back in 2020, but never actually suited up for the club).

And now, after some summer reinforcements, the list includes two MLS All-Stars who, shortly after representing the USMNT at the 2026 World Cup on home soil, have joined the English Championship outfit.

Earlier this month, Boro sent a reported $2 million fee to Vancouver Whitecaps FC for Morris’ old Crew academy pal Sebastian Berhalter, then snared yet another Columbus standout: wingback Max Arfsten, in a deal that could eventually be worth as much as $7.5 million for the Ohioans.

It's a striking endorsement of both MLS and the Crew, especially considering Boro are a perennial contender for a Premier League return, having fallen agonizingly short of that goal in last season’s promotion playoffs. Conversely, manager Kim Hellberg credited Morris for spreading the good word about the Teesside club.

“You can see how much his friends talk to him about Middlesbrough, about the club, about how we train, about the supporters. All those things,” said Hellberg.

“If Aidan talks to them, and then they move here from America, he must have told them a lot of good things about the club. It’s great for the club that the players like being here and think it’s a great place to be.”

We reckon Middlesbrough are now high on the list of must-watch European teams for MLS fans.

It wasn't a move St. Louis CITY SC wanted to make. But the Midwesterners bid Auf Wiedersehen to their most productive attacker, Marcel Hartel, allowing the playmaker and his family to address "a personal situation" by returning to Germany, where he's joined second-division side Hannover 96.

The Designated Player totaled 24 goals and 14 assists in 67 appearances across all competitions during his two years on the banks of the Mississippi River. Yet St. Louis put the human side first, allowing him to leave for a reported fee of around $1 million, well below what they could've demanded on the open market.

"We can't forget that there's real people behind this," sporting director Corey Wray told MLSsoccer.com last week.

On the bright side, Wray & Co. just added another DP in Danish attacker Carlo Holse and still have almost two weeks left in the transfer window with which to identify Hartel's replacement. And St. Louis looked just fine in their first game without Hartel, winning 3-1 at San Jose to extend their unbeaten run to 10 matches across all competitions as they continue to hum smoothly under first-year head coach Yoann Damet.

Imposing center back Olwethu Makhanya, one of the key ingredients in the Philadelphia Union’s 2025 Supporters’ Shield-winning squad, now dons the colors of one of Britain’s most historic sides, Scottish giants Rangers FC.

The South Africa international crosses the Atlantic for a reported $4 million fee, a decent return on investment for Philly, who made the 2026 World Cup alum their first-ever U22 Initiative signing three years ago via a deal with Stellenbosch of the South African Premiership.

It’s a win-win since Makhanya had lost minutes to rising Union Academy wunderkind Neil Pierre, the towering homegrown who’s impressed since interim head coach Ryan Richter pushed him into the first-team rotation following MLS’s World Cup pause.

Pec to Brazil

The LA Galaxy have had a busy summer!

Their wheeling and dealing includes the club-record sale of Gabriel Pec to Brazilian heavyweights Cruzeiro, which reaps an eight-figure fee for LA but deprives their attack of a highly incisive and creative winger.

The 2024 MLS Newcomer of the Year was a vital contributor to the Galaxy’s run to that year’s MLS Cup presented by Audi title. It’s a shame he suffered a serious injury at the dawn of his Cruzeiro tenure: a broken leg from a tackle by Internacional defender Víctor Gabriel, whose <a href="https://www.espn.com/soccer/story/_/id/49476453/victor-gabriel-suspended-gabriel-pec-broken-leg-brazil" target="_blank">disciplinary suspension</a> made headlines around the world for its unprecedented nature.

Monterrey go shopping

One of Mexico’s wealthiest, most successful sides has looked north for reinforcements this summer.

Hungry to end a title drought that’s now stretched to five years, CF Monterrey swung deals for Diego Rossi, a four-time MLS All-Star and habitual trophy hunter with LAFC and Columbus. Shortly after, they acquired Hugo Cuypers, the Belgian striker who was leading this season’s Golden Boot presented by race with Chicago Fire FC.

Those moves reportedly cost Rayados – who already have an ex-MLS standout on the books in FC Cincinnati alum Luca Orellano, as well as Houston Dynamo FC homegrown Sebastián Rodríguez on loan – somewhere north of $15 million in combined fees. And they've already paid off, with Rossi and Cuypers helping power Monterrey to a tasty Leagues Cup quarterfinal with Chicago and Robert Lewandowski, whose midsummer arrival prompted Cuypers to explore an outgoing move.

Ponce, García eras end

Houston Dynamo FC, too, just waved goodbye to a DP attacker, Ezequiel Ponce, as the Argentine striker rejoined his former club Elche in Spain's LaLiga.

It's mostly good news for La Naranja, as they can reasonably hope to hit the market and gain greater productivity from that DP slot than the modest 20 goals Ponce scored in 70 overall appearances with H-town.

A comparable scenario is unfolding at Sporting Kansas City, where elevated roster investment from new controlling ownership has prompted a parting of ways with No. 10 Manu García to open a DP slot in this window.

The Spaniard was well-liked and impactful in flashes, yet with SKC sitting rock-bottom in the overall table, further overhauling is underway (and they've already added a new club-record signing in Brazilian winger André Luiz, spending a reported $18 million to acquire him from Olympiacos).
