TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Signing

The Colorado Rapids have acquired winger Morgan Whittaker from English Championship side Middlesbrough FC, the club announced Friday.

The 25-year-old former England youth international arrives for a club-record fee worth a reported $10.7 million.

Whittaker is under contract through the 2029-30 MLS season with an option for 2030-31. He will occupy Designated Player and international roster slots.

"Morgan is a proven difference-maker who will add outstanding quality and a significant attacking threat to our team," said Rapids president Pádraig Smith.

"His ability to both create and score goals from wide areas, combined with his vision, technical quality and decision-making, makes him an excellent fit for Matt [Wells'] game model.

"Morgan is entering the prime years of his career, and we believe he can make an immediate and significant impact in MLS. We are delighted to welcome him to Colorado."

Morgan Whittaker is a Burgundy Boy. pic.twitter.com/MDDS2zOlNo

Whittaker has spent his entire career in England, making stops at Derby County, Lincoln City, Swansea City and Plymouth Argyle before signing with Middlesbrough.

In total, Whittaker has tallied 59g/28a in 258 senior appearances. Last season he contributed 14g/7a as Middlesbrough reached the Championship Playoff Final.

The Rapids are revamping their attack during the summer window. After trading leading goalscorer Rafael Navarro to St. Louis CITY SC for $12 million, Colorado have added Whittaker, Ghanaian winger Ibrahim Sadiq and Israel international forward Sayed Abu Farkhi.

"Morgan is a player that is going to bolster our attack immensely this season and for years to come," said Rapids head coach Matt Wells.

"His playing style is exactly what I look for in an attacker, and he has that individual magic that will help elevate us to the next level. His outputs speak for themselves in an incredibly competitive league such as the EFL Championship. He’s a player I know well from my time in England, and understanding how in demand he is, it speaks volumes about our project here that we’ve managed to secure his signature.

"This is a player who is going to be a foundational piece for this club, and the supporters will be able to see that as soon as he steps onto the pitch in a Rapids shirt."

Currently, Colorado sit seventh in the Western Conference (31 points; 10W-11L-1D) as they push for a return to the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
