TORONTO – Josh Sargent is playing like a man on a mission.

Toronto FC's marquee 2026 signing delivered his biggest performance to date on Saturday, scoring a first career hat trick in a wild 4-4 draw against Chicago Fire FC at BMO Field.

“It's been a while, so happy to finally get my first professional hat trick,” Sargent said postgame.

“My kids have been waiting for this moment. They've been pestering me, saying, ‘You gonna score today? You gonna score today?’ So I’m very happy about it, of course.”

Game of the Year?!? 😱@TorontoFC and @ChicagoFire was pure entertainment. pic.twitter.com/g6KG68dKj6

Sargent, who joined Toronto over the winter from EFL Championship side Norwich City in a transfer worth up to a reported $27 million, is storming into form as his new team climbs up the Eastern Conference standings.

With 4g/1a in his last four games, the 26-year-old has helped the Reds go undefeated in six (2W-0L-4D) to move within a point of an Audi MLS Cup Playoffs spot.

“I've been saying all along, I think Josh is absolutely fantastic,” head coach Robin Fraser said. “I hear questions like, ‘What's wrong with him? What does Josh need to do to get off the mark?’ I think he's tremendous.

“I think he's tremendous not only because of his goal-scoring ability, [but] his willingness to work for the team. I think you saw so much of what Josh brings to us tonight, not just in the three goals, but the work that he did outside of it.”

🤪🤪🤪 pic.twitter.com/ZEo4IZpF4I

Since arriving in MLS, Sargent seems to have a knack for scoring against the Fire and former USMNT head coach Gregg Berhalter.

The Missourian scored at Soldier Field in TFC’s final game before the FIFA World Cup. And after outdueling legendary Polish striker Robert Lewandowski - who had 1g/1a for the visitors on Saturday - with his first-ever hat trick, more than half of Sargent's seven league goals have come against Chicago

Now, with Toronto pushing for an Audi MLS Cup Playoff spot, getting their marquee man in the best possible form is priority No. 1.

“I'm naturally a very hard worker, and days like this, where I feel like all my hard work kind of pays off, it's very gratifying,” Sargent said.

“I have a process, and if I keep doing the same things, keep trying to put myself in the right spots, the goals will come. So that's what happened today.”
