Whether scoring a hat trick, saving a penalty or making a goal-line clearance, stars delivered in the clutch to earn a spot on the Matchday 24 Team of the Matchday presented by Audi.

Starters: Andre Blake (PHI) - Guilherme Biro (ATX), DeAndre Yedlin (RSL), Tomas Totland (STL) - Denis Bouanga (LAFC), Danley Jean Jacques (PHI), Marco Reus (LA), Maren Haile-Selassie (CHI) - Vincent Janssen (POR), Josh Sargent (TOR), Petar Musa (DAL)

Coach: Yoann Damet (STL)

Bench: Ethan Horvath (RBNY), Maxwell Woledzi (NSH), Lucas Halter (HOU), Conrad Wallem (STL), Beau Leroux (SJ), Marcus Caldeira (MIN), Antoine Griezmann (ORL), Breel Embolo (ATL), Gonzalo Tapia (CLB)

Club-record signing Josh Sargent scored the first hat trick of his professional career in Toronto FC's rollercoaster 4-4 draw against Chicago Fire FC, capped by a pinpoint long-range finish to cancel out Maren Haile-Selassie's brace.

Summer signing Vincent Janssen matched that tally with the first MLS hat trick in Portland Timbers history, guiding his new side to an enthralling 5-4 victory over Minnesota United FC on his full debut.

St. Louis CITY SC extended their MLS-best unbeaten streak (now 13 games) under head coach Yoann Damet, taking a 3-1 win at conference-leading Vancouver Whitecaps FC behind a goal and an assist from Tomas Totland.

The Philadelphia Union are unbeaten in eight straight matches following the FIFA World Cup break, as Andre Blake saved a penalty and Danley Jean Jacques opened the scoring in a 2-0 victory over CF Montréal.

Croatian international Petar Musa drew level with Lionel Messi atop the Golden Boot presented by Audi race (18 goals) with a brace for FC Dallas, highlighted by the game-winning penalty in stoppage time of a 4-3 triumph over Sporting Kansas City.

Also delivering drama in the 97th minute, Austin FC defender Guilherme Biro hammered home to snatch a point in a 1-1 draw against the San Jose Earthquakes.

Late theatrics don't only come at the offensive end, as DeAndre Yedlin tracked back for a game-saving, sliding goal-line clearance to preserve a point for Real Salt Lake in a 2-2 draw with LAFC.

Finally, Marco Reus provided a goal and an assist in the LA Galaxy's 2-1 victory over the New England Revolution during Walmart Saturday Showdown.
