TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Transfer

The Colorado Rapids have transferred defender Lucas Herrington to English Premier League side Hull City in a club-record deal, the team announced Wednesday.

The 18-year-old Australian international departs for the largest outbound fee for a defender in MLS history, reportedly up to $23 million ($17 million base) plus a sell-on percentage.

"Lucas is a special talent whose elite mentality and character match his outstanding ability on the field," said Rapids president Pádraig Smith. "We are incredibly proud of everything he accomplished during his time with the Rapids and excited for him as he takes this next step in his career.

"Identifying, recruiting, and developing the best young talent, locally, nationally and internationally, is a key part of our club strategy. Our ambition is to help them make an impact and win here in MLS, while creating an environment in which they can reach their full potential. Lucas is a wonderful example of that approach, and we wish him every success at Hull City."

Herrington has enjoyed a meteoric rise with Colorado, who acquired him in August 2025 on a pre-contract from A-League side Brisbane Roar FC. He reportedly joined for less than $1 million.

Fast forward, and the center back was named a 2026 MLS All-Star, played in two games for the Socceroos at the 2026 FIFA World Cup and tallied 1g/1a in 20 games for the Rapids this season.

“When I landed in Colorado in January, I had left Australia for the first time to come across the world and chase a dream. The Rapids and their fans took a chance on me and made me feel at home from day one," said Herrington.

"I’m grateful to my family, my teammates and coach Matt Wells, and Padraig Smith for believing in me, supporting my growth and giving me the opportunity to take the next steps in my career. To the fans: thank you for embracing a kid from Brisbane as one of your own. Colorado has given me so much, and I’ll always be proud to have been a Rapid. I’m excited for what comes next, but I’ll never forget my time here. Thank you."

Hull City are back in the Premier League for the first time since 2016-17. They earned promotion by beating Middlesbrough in the 2025-26 EFL Championship playoff final.

Colorado are in their first season under head coach Matt Wells, a former assistant with the EPL's Tottenham Hotspur. They're 11th in the Western Conference, two points (22) below the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs line.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
