Heading into the 2026 FIFA World Cup, Norway were a popular choice for the tournament's "Dark Horse."

They've more than backed up that claim, advancing out of a difficult Group I that included tournament favorites France and African powerhouse Senegal, before downing the Ivory Coast during the Round of 32.

Those results have millions of Norwegians, including Portland Timbers forward Kristoffer Velde, believing this could be their year for a legendary run.

"It’s amazing to watch Norway play," said Velde, who represented Norway in a UEFA Euro 2024 qualifier.

"They’ve faced some good opponents and still shown great performances and amazing team spirit, so of course I'm buzzing for them. When you see the footage and photos and videos from how Oslo looked, all the people celebrating in front of the castle, just going crazy… it’s nice to see.

"Basically, the whole world is talking about them now. They’re not just there to be there, but to make a mark.”

The Norwegian supporters have garnered global attention as well, following their team from Boston to Dallas with a stop in New York in between.

Whether it's taking over the center-field bleachers at Citi Field, disrupting a yoga class in Times Square, or simply showing up in masses to support their country, Norway's fans have become one of the many feel-good stories of this World Cup.

"It looks like they're having fun in America," said Nashville SC midfielder Eddi Tagseth, a former Norway youth international. "They show up, they make a lot of noise and I think they're enjoying the moment.

"It's been so long since the last time we were in a World Cup, so they're trying to make the most out of it and enjoy every day that we're still in the tournament. It definitely has been almost like a viral thing."

That's not to mention the most viral moment of all: the Viking Row celebration, which has taken the United States by storm.

"You always have those teams in the World Cup tournament. I remember before it was Iceland with the clapping," said Sporting Kansas City midfielder Lasse Berg Johnsen, who's earned three caps with Norway.

"Now, Norway is that team everybody thinks is super nice to follow, and it feels like even the other nations support Norway because they love seeing their rowing."

Added Velde: "It’s already iconic and it looks really nice. You see every kind of people doing it now, not only the Norwegians. I saw a TikTok video of the people who worked at customs in Dallas welcoming the Norwegian guys back, and they were sitting there, outside the aircraft and rowing."

Berg Johnsen, Tagseth and Velde all have more than just a generic familiarity with those playing for head coach Ståle Solbakken.

In fact, all three have shared the field with players who are currently representing Norway, from youth teams to the senior squad. And, yes, that list includes Manchester City striker Erling Haaland.

"I've played with some of them. Haaland at Under-17s we played together, \[Jørgen\] Strand-Larsen, \[David Møller\] Wolfe, \[Thelo\] Aasgaard in Under-20s," recounted Tagseth. "I know some of the guys, and they're doing well. It's fun to see."

The most notable name on the roster is, of course, Haaland. At just 25 years old, he's become a legend for his country and is in contention for the World Cup Golden Boot with five goals.

"Haaland and I grew up two hours away from each other, so we were playing here and there," recalled Velde. "Every month, two months, they collected all the best players from that region, so me and him were playing games together and we played against each other."

For Berg Johnsen, there's no debate. Haaland is unquestionably the best striker on Earth.

"As a goalscorer, a No. 9, I think he's the best in the world," said Berg Johnsen. "The stats for Norway are unbelievable: 60 goals in 53 games, and he's such a nice guy as well."

When Norway last played in a FIFA World Cup, at the 1998 edition in France, 17 of the 26 players on their current World Cup roster weren't even born yet.

But that tournament yielded what's likely Norway's most incredible result to date, a shock 2-1 win over Brazil. It's no surprise that it's still referenced when describing the nation's greatest soccer successes, and Tagseth would know better than most.

"This match, especially the one in 1998, is something that every Norwegian who is a fan of soccer knows about," said Tagseth. "The guy \[Kjetil Rekdal\] who scored the game-winning penalty in that game was my coach at Rosenborg, so obviously he would tell that story sometimes.

"That was a massive part of football history in Norway. If we can recreate that, that would be amazing."

Now, 28 years later, Norway encounter a similar situation.

After already securing their best-ever record at a World Cup, they'll once again line up across from Brazil. Should they win Sunday's Round of 16 clash vs. the Seleção at New York/New Jersey Stadium (4 pm ET), a quarterfinal awaits in Miami on July 11 vs. Mexico or England.

The stakes don't get much bigger than this.

"The guys that played the World Cup in '98 ... they are like heroes in Norway," stated Berg Johnsen. "It's been such a long wait for us to get in the World Cup again, and now we are here, so the Norwegian team and then all the Norwegian fans and everyone are creating history. All the Norwegians are really proud of witnessing that. It's crazy how football can unite a country."

"We have a solid team, the coach and the other staff," the SKC midfielder added. "They're doing an amazing job. And they have such a good power – strong team togetherness. And I think in the World Cup, every game has been tight. Even the Brazil game against Japan was tight until the last minute, so I think anything can happen."
