Viewed today, with Obed Vargas already on Atlético Madrid's gameday roster just three days after completing his landmark transfer from Seattle Sounders FC, the DAZN documentary looks prophetic.

Released in May as part of the network’s ‘Eyes On The Rise’ series ahead of its broadcasts of the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup, the video profiles Vargas’ storybook rise from an unheralded teenager in distant Alaska to one of North American soccer’s top prospects – including his particular thrill at the Sounders’ second opponent in last summer’s CWC.

“My favorite club growing up has always been Atlético Madrid. I just felt identified in them,” Vargas explained to the cameras. “Because everywhere I've gone, I had to fight and really earn everything. And I think that's just the identity of Atlético de Madrid. It's the spirit that I really identify myself with.

“Hopefully I do well and maybe they like me.”

We know now that Atleti definitely did – and that none other than Sounders majority owner Adrian Hanauer himself was <a href="https://www.espn.com/soccer/story/_/id/47809097/seattle-sounders-midfielder-obed-vargas-joins-atletico-madrid" target="_blank">making the case</a> for their young homegrown midfielder on that sunny June afternoon at Lumen Field.

“\[Hanauer\] said, ‘Hey, make sure you keep your eye on \[Vargas\],’” Seattle general manager Craig Waibel told ESPN this week, recounting a conversation between Hanauer and Atleti executives. “‘He's good enough to pique your interest. He's good enough to catch your attention, and today he'll leave no doubt.’”

Vargas’ transfer fee is being reported as around $3.5 million plus add-ons and a hefty sell-on clause, both a new club-record fee for Seattle and a relative bargain for Atleti considering the Mexican-American talent’s age (he’s still just 20 years old, despite logging more than 100 first-team matches for SSFC) and trajectory.

The fact that he was entering the final year of his Sounders contract played a role there, and it’s also important to note that the Rave Green had already rejected offers more than twice that amount from some of the largest clubs in Mexico, with Vargas determined to make the leap to Europe now.

His Madrid move represents a massive win for the Sounders and the player-development system they’ve methodically built over the past decade – not in spite of those factors, but because of them.

“It's a win for Obed, it's a win for all of our development staff that have worked with him, including our first team,” Waibel told MLSsoccer.com on Wednesday evening. “And that is to the credit of the player first, but then also just so many people, multilayered in our organization, that have done the work.

“We've all known since Obed joined the club, at 15 years old, that Atlético is his dream club. So of course, we're going to say it to them in the summer. But really, the work was on Obed to prove to them, and we couldn't be happier as an org\[anization\] that he did. It's an awesome day for him, and awesome moment for him in his career.”

Waibel points to another momentous occasion at Lumen last summer, too: The Leagues Cup final on Aug. 31, where a record-setting, overflow crowd watched the Rave Green humble Inter Miami and their vaunted constellation of superstars in a 3-0 win, highlighted by Vargas and his engine-room partner Cristian Roldan keeping Lionel Messi in check to an extent few opponents on this continent have.

That performance, against that caliber of adversary, drew further global attention to Obed’s abilities. Though SSFC staffers would rightly point out that he’s only one of many players on the pitch that day who were honed by the club’s developmental pathway, including goalscorers Osaze De Rosario and Paul Rothrock and Andrew Thomas, the goalkeeper who posted the clean sheet.

Some are academy products, others draftees or reclamation projects; all are alumni of Tacoma Defiance, the MLS NEXT Pro side which has blossomed into such a useful finishing school.

“Obed can be the poster child of development, a player that developed in our organization that transferred to a big club,” said Waibel. “But Obed was one of seven guys that came through our development system that played in that League Cup final that raised a huge trophy, and made Seattle the only team in MLS to own all of the major trophies in our league.

“It's another layer to the lore of what the Sounders are.”

Conventional transfer wisdom suggests Seattle should have sold Obed a year ago, to maximize their leverage for reaping the biggest possible fee.

Yet doing that would have sapped the midfield strength that makes them a perennial contender in MLS, and enabled them to stand toe to toe with Atleti, Paris Saint-Germain and Botafogo in the CWC – and might well have prevented them from hoisting that Leagues Cup trophy and claiming the reported $2 million payday for the tournament’s champions, plus the huge windfall from such a big home gate.

“It turns out that in sports, if you win, you get more opportunities to win, and if you lose, you generally get invited to leave,” deadpanned Waibel. “If you look back at that one individual game, I think Obed really stood out in that moment against Miami. And lo and behold, it – along with all the other body of work – garnered quite a bit of attention from some big clubs."

The power of Vargas’ story, particularly for those following him in the pipeline, far eclipses any one financial transaction, and so does what the Sounders achieved with him wearing their kit – let alone the player’s own role in charting life’s path.

This was a collaborative process throughout.

“The truth is, these players are better than we were when I played,” said Waibel, a former defender who won four MLS Cups and two Supporters’ Shields in his own playing days. “And when you're better, you have more opportunities, and when you have more opportunities, you have more choices. So there's a shift in our league because of the overall quality that's happening with our players, with our coaching staff, with our front offices.

“We also need to remember that the players have a massive say in their own lives,” he noted. “It's definitely hard to look across the table at this point, if you're a developing player, and not say, Seattle's a club that's not only going to give me a chance, but it's going to be the right opportunity.”

Vargas’ departure leaves a sizable hole in Seattle’s lineup. Yet there’s confidence that others like him will step up to fill it, even if it takes a collective rather than a simple plug-and-play replacement, thanks to the organizational culture they’ve carefully crafted over many years.

It’s one maintained not only by head coach Brian Schmetzer, his first-team staff and their counterparts at Defiance and the academy sides, but the players themselves, the likes of Cristian Roldan, Jordan Morris and João Paulo, who’ve been teammates, role models and de facto elder siblings to Vargas and his fellow youngsters.

And panning out even further, from a bird’s eye view, Obed’s journey leaves Waibel bullish on the future, for his club as well as the entirety of MLS.

“This offseason was a good example across our league. We had a player transfer to LaLiga – a couple of players transfer into LaLiga,” he said, pointing to Alex Freeman’s comparable move from Orlando City to Villarreal. “Our players are starting to transfer to big leagues, big markets, and the development is undeniable at this point.

“What we're really seeing is the evolution of our players, and the evolution of our league. We are producing players that are capable of going to bigger leagues. And I think the humility in this moment is actually remembering that right now, we are pursuing several leagues to catch up to them, and it's OK – it's OK to be humble and say that our players have desires to go play in the top five leagues in the world. I think it's a wonderful ambition, and I think the more players we put there, the closer we're going to creep up to those leagues themselves.”
