United States head coach Mauricio Pochettino has named nine MLS players to his 27-man roster for March friendlies against Belgium and Portugal, marking key preparations for the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Chris Brady - Chicago Fire FC

Matt Freese - New York City FC

Patrick Schulte - Columbus Crew

Matt Turner - New England Revolution

Max Arfsten - Columbus Crew

Alex Freeman - Villarreal

Mark McKenzie - Toulouse

Tim Ream - Charlotte FC

Chris Richards - Crystal Palace

Antonee Robinson - Fulham

Miles Robinson - FC Cincinnati

Joe Scally - Borussia Mönchengladbach

Auston Trusty - Celtic

Sebastian Berhalter - Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Johnny Cardoso - Atlético Madrid

Weston McKennie - Juventus

Aidan Morris - Middlesbrough

Gio Reyna - Borussia Mönchengladbach

Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders FC

Tanner Tessmann - Olympique Lyon

Malik Tillman - Bayer Leverkusen

Brenden Aaronson - Leeds United

Patrick Agyemang - Derby County

Folarin Balogun - Monaco

Ricardo Pepi - PSV Eindhoven

Christian Pulisic - AC Milan

Tim Weah - Olympique Marseille

MLS call-ups are bolded above.

March 28 vs. Belgium - 3:30 pm ET | Mercedes-Benz Stadium (Atlanta, Georgia)

March 31 vs. Portugal - 7 pm ET | Mercedes-Benz Stadium (Atlanta, Georgia)

In the USMNT's first camp of 2026, UEFA heavyweights Belgium and Portugal await at Atlanta United's Mercedes-Benz Stadium.

Both opponents are top 10 in the FIFA World Rankings, providing major tests before the US co-hosts this summer's World Cup alongside Canada and Mexico.

All four goalkeepers are from MLS, with New York City FC's Matt Freese and the New England Revolution's Matt Turner likely battling for the No. 1 role.

Center backs Tim Ream (Charlotte FC) and Miles Robinson (FC Cincinnati) are vying for starting spots, as is Columbus Crew left back Max Arfsten.

After making the 2025 MLS Best XI, midfielders Sebastian Berhalter (Vancouver Whitecaps FC) and Cristian Roldan (Seattle Sounders FC) have enjoyed strong starts to the campaign.

Notably, Real Salt Lake midfielder Diego Luna misses out after recently returning from a knee injury.

UPDATE: Patrick Schulte was added to the roster post-announcement; Roman Celentano withdrew to avoid injury risk.

Orlando City homegrown Alex Freeman joined LaLiga side Villarreal over the winter, following his 2025 MLS Young Player of the Year nod.

Columbus Crew homegrown Aidan Morris has Middlesbrough on the verge of promotion to the English Premier League, while ex-Charlotte FC striker Patrick Agyemang and Derby County are also in the mix.

FC Dallas homegrown Ricardo Pepi (PSV Eindhoven) is back from an arm injury, and fellow FCD alum Tanner Tessmann (Lyon) is vying for a UEFA Champions League spot in Ligue 1.

Philadelphia Union homegrown Brenden Aaronson (Leeds United) and FCD product Chris Richards (Crystal Palace) remain key starters for their respective EPL teams.

Then, NYCFC academy products Gio Reyna and Joe Scally are called in from German Bundesliga side Borussia Mönchengladbach.

The USMNT are in Group D at the World Cup, where they'll face Australia, Paraguay and the winner of UEFA Playoff C.

Their final opponent will be revealed on March 31; European nations Kosovo, Romania, Slovakia and Türkiye are vying to help round out the 48-team World Cup field.

June 12 vs. Paraguay | SoFi Stadium - Inglewood, California

June 19 vs. Australia | Lumen Field - Seattle, Washington

June 25 vs. TBD | SoFi Stadium - Inglewood, California

After the March window, the USMNT will reconvene in May for World Cup tune-up friendlies.

Pochettino's team will face Senegal on May 31 at Charlotte FC's Bank of America Stadium, then host Germany on June 6 at Chicago Fire FC's Soldier Field.

The USMNT are on a five-game unbeaten streak, ending their 2025 slate with a 5-1 win over Uruguay on home soil.
