Son Heung-Min and Denis Bouanga will look to snap LAFC's three-game winless skid when they host the Portland Timbers on Saturday evening.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4zmrEw1" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

Saturday, Aug. 22 | 10:30 pm ET/7:30 pm PT

BMO Stadium | Los Angeles, California

Standings

3rd in Western Conference

34 points (10W-7L-4D)

Last game

LAFC dropped points for the third straight game Wednesday, falling 1-0 at the Colorado Rapids. It marked the club's second-straight 1-0 setback, after also losing to San Diego FC last week.

Now just one point above dropping out of the top four, they'll hope to rekindle some form on Saturday night.

Players to watch

Denis Bouanga: The Gabon international remains one of MLS's top attacking talents, with a team-high 10g/7a in 20 games.

Son Heung-Min: After scoring four goals in four games since returning from the FIFA World Cup break, the South Korean star is up to 14 goal contributions (4g/10a) this year.

Jacob Shaffelburg: The Canadian international is known for his speed down the left wing and will look to unlock Portland's defense.

Hugo Lloris: The legendary French goalkeeper leads MLS with 10 clean sheets this season, while allowing just 15 goals in 17 starts.

Need to know

After three straight MLS matches without a win and back-to-back shutout losses, LAFC are in need of a positive result to continue their challenge for the top of the West.

It's no secret that the Black & Gold boast talent in every area of the pitch, and will hope that quality helps them return to winning ways.

If LAFC manage to snap the winless skid, they'll remain firmly entrenched in the tight race atop the Western Conference alongside Vancouver Whitecaps FC and Houston Dynamo FC.

Standings

9th in Western Conference

27 points (8W-9L-3D)

Last game

Portland picked up a third win in four games on Wednesday, handing San Diego FC a 3-1 defeat via goals from Kristoffer Velde, Ariel Lassiter and David Da Costa.

The victory marked the first for head coach Martí Cifuentes in MLS play, after he recently assumed the post from interim manager Jack Cassidy.

Players to watch

Kevin Kelsy: With 9g/4a this season, Kelsy is enjoying a career year and building on his seven-goal campaign in 2025.

Kristoffer Velde: Portland's attacking dynamo, the Norwegian put together a Player of the Match performance against San Diego with 1g/2a.

David Da Costa: The Timbers' Portuguese playmaker sets the tone in midfield and is second on the team with seven assists.

Finn Surman: A goalscorer at the 2026 World Cup with New Zealand, Surman has established himself as a rock at the back for Portland.

Need to know

Portland have enjoyed a renaissance since the departure of former head coach Phil Neville, climbing back into the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs picture under Cassidy and now Cifuentes.

Now ninth in the West, the Timbers are just two points above the postseason cutoff line.

Can they create some distance, and make a statement, when they visit LAFC?

Back at BMO Stadium, LAFC are the strong favorites with 60% of the market backing them. Portland's odds are around 20%, while a draw currently stands at 21%.

Market insights shared are current as of Friday, Aug. 21 at 11 am ET.
