Vancouver Whitecaps FC continued the best start in their MLS history Saturday night, improving to 6W-1L-0D, and they have a familiar hero to thank.

Brian White secured all three points with his 87th-minute insurance goal in a 2-0 victory over New York City FC at BC Place.

The US men’s national team forward scored his team-leading sixth goal of the season in seven starts, putting him well on pace for a fourth consecutive season with double-digit goals.

It was also the 700th goal in the club's MLS history, and leaves White one goal behind Golden Boot presented by Audi co-leaders Petar Musa (FC Dallas) and Sam Surridge (Nashville SC).

“Ever since Jesper \[Sørensen\] has come in, they’ve tried to push me to be more comfortable on the ball. Whether it's holding the ball up, switching sides. I’ve pushed myself to be more selfish,“ said White.

“’Selfish’ – like my half chances to really try and push myself and try and create goals. I just kept trying to score, my teammates giving me good passes, just kept trying and trying, and then finally, it fell in.”

The 30-year-old was active throughout against NYCFC and put seven shots on frame, repeatedly denied by USMNT goalkeeper Matt Freese, before being rewarded three minutes from full-time with a diving header inside the six-yard box.

White then honored former Red Bull New York teammate Bradley Wright-Phillips with his goal celebration.

“I think that he is now a little bit more dynamic in the part of our buildup, and also a guy who can turn and go in front against their goal. I also have to say that Freese had a very good game and he had some very good saves,” said Sørensen, Vancouver's head coach.

“One or two might have been in another time, but I think in general, Brian plays well and looks to be in good shape. ... it’s nice to see that he is not bothered by a miss, even though, of course, everybody is. But he kept going, and in the end, he found the back of the net.”

In addition, USMNT midfielder Sebastian Berhalter’s fifth assist of the season set up Mathías Laborda’s opening goal for Vancouver. They're now atop the Supporters’ Shield and Western Conference standings, leading the league in points (18), goals scored (19) and goal differential (+15) through Matchday 7.
