Seattle Sounders FC got the result they were desperate for.

Knowing they needed a win to keep alive their hopes of advancing to the Leagues Cup knockout stages, the defending champions were more than up to the task, cruising to a dominant 3-0 victory over Querétaro on Sunday at Lumen Field.

Not only does the win end a seven-match losing streak across all competitions, but it could prove critical in shifting momentum for the MLS season's stretch run.

“It was definitely a good feeling, especially the run of form we were in," forward Danny Musovski said after the match. "But to get a win is huge, sets us up in a good way.

"Definitely, you can feel the energy just change a little bit after a win like that.”

It was a banner day for Seattle's front four, all of whom tallied at least one goal contribution.

Up top, Musovski – who netted a career-best 14 goals in league play last year, but has scored just one MLS goal this season – bagged his first since May 9, a welcome sight for the sore eyes of Sounders fans.

DP midfielder Albert Rusnák, the team leader in goal contributions with 11 in all competitions, also found the back of the net.

Meanwhile, the Sounders wingers also earned star plaudits. Paul Rothrock, the team's leading goalscorer, turned provider with two assists, while Sebastian Gomez made the most of his first-ever start for Seattle with 1g/1a.

"Scoring the goal first gave the team a little bit more confidence," Seattle head coach Brian Schmetzer said. "And we talked about a lot of things going into the game about a belief in winning.

"We went through the coaching stuff, the details: set pieces, front foot, defend well, clean sheet, all that sort of stuff. But the focus was on them believing that they could win, and so that was the best way to start."

The Sounders have endured a stretch many of the club's fans are not used to, dropping six straight MLS matches before falling 3-0 in their Phase One opener at Toluca FC.

The slide saw Seattle drop into the Wild Card places in the Western Conference, only above the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs line on goal difference.

"Look, we still have a long way to go," Schmetzer admitted. "Again, realistically, we're going to have a tough stretch of league games, Vancouver, Austin, and Cincinnati. So yes, we have to build some momentum."

But Sunday's win may be exactly what the team needed to turn the tide, both in Leagues Cup and MLS play. Picking up three points for the first time since May 13 could be massive for helping the squad begin their climb back up the West.

"Just believing, never backing down. We're in a rough spot, but now we can get hot again," Gomez added postgame. "We won and we're going to use this momentum."
