Thomas Müller knows all about playing in rivalry matches. And the legendary German star knows all about scoring in them, as well.

During his illustrious career with Bayern Munich, the Vancouver Whitecaps FC midfielder battled the club's biggest Bundesliga competitor, Borussia Dortmund, in Der Klassiker 45 times and tallied 24 goal contributions (14g/10a).

While no stranger to scoring in rivalry battles, Müller was still searching for his first-ever goal against the 'Caps' Cascadian counterparts, Seattle Sounders FC.

On Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire, he found it, coming up clutch to guide his side to a much-needed 2-0 win at Lumen Field.

Leading 1-0 late in the match, Müller put the game to bed, firing home a lovely indirect free kick that rattled the far post before nestling in the Seattle goal.

The goal moved the Whitecaps' All-Star to 6g/4a on the season, and could provide a launch pad for Müller, who's found the back of the net twice in league play since returning from the FIFA World Cup pause.

Not only was his goal imperative for helping Müller return to his typical goalscoring form, but it also ensured the 'Caps won their ninth Cascadia Cup, the round-robin rivalry contested between Pacific Northwest foes Seattle, Vancouver and the Portland Timbers.

The win marked the Whitecaps' third cup victory in the last four seasons and ninth overall. Their 2026 title extends their all-time rivalry lead to two over the Sounders (seven).

The Whitecaps have enjoyed plenty of success over the last two seasons, evolving into one of MLS's elite squads under head coach Jesper Sørensen.

This year, they're once again at the top of the Western Conference and looking to build on a 2025 campaign that saw them win the West and reach MLS Cup presented by Audi for the first time.

After relinquishing their lead atop the Western Conference for just one night to Houston Dynamo FC, who have emerged as a true contender under head coach Ben Olsen, Vancouver reclaimed the top spot thanks to Sunday's victory (37 points; 11W-3L-4D).

But they'll be immediately tested by their new challengers in the West, as Vancouver host Houston in a battle between No. 1 and No. 2 on Wednesday night at BC Place (10:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/vancouver-whitecaps-fc-vs-houston-dynamo-fc/umc.cse.2iuefubp3pxlj8e1greesl5jl?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.7000%2Ctvs.sbd.4000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).
