What a week in MLS.

Houston kept a clean sheet, Inter Miami struggled at home, and Petar Musa found the back of the net for FC Dallas. It was truly a week unlike any other.

As always: The Power Rankings are voted on by, give or take, 15 people associated with MLSsoccer.com. The author does not decide the rankings, but he does get a little rush out of moving your team in particular down a few spots when he can.

Nashville’s attack had a rare off-night against New York City FC in a 0-0 draw. Fortunately for them, anyone with a remote chance of catching them in the Shield race had an off-night too.

They’re heading into a two-game week with a 10-point lead on second-place Inter Miami. They’ll face the Herons on Saturday night in Miami.

Previous: 0-0 draw at NYC | Next: 9/9 at TOR

The Vancouver Whitecaps have been dominant at home since Jesper Sørensen took over last year.

But St. Louis CITY were the better side on Saturday in what became Vancouver’s second home loss in three matches. The Whitecaps have earned 11 points from seven matches since midfielder Sebastian Berhalter’s transfer to Middlesbrough.

Previous: 3-1 loss vs. STL | Next: 9/9 vs. LA

The Herons have been far from dominant at home since moving to Nu Stadium. They’re sitting at 4W-2L-5D at their new stadium after this weekend’s 2-2 draw with Atlanta.

Casemiro played center back again in this one and, well, Atlanta’s attack didn’t struggle for chances. It’s nothing new for Miami, but their defensive ability in multiple phases is a concern.

Previous: 2-2 draw vs. ATL | Next: 9/9 at CHI

St. Louis haven’t lost since May 3.

This team started the year with six losses and one win over their first 10 games and have been virtually untouchable ever since. Their latest points came in a seriously impressive 3-1 win over the Whitecaps in Vancouver.

New $12 million striker Rafael Navarro made his debut in a substitute appearance, but there’s no rush to get him in the starting lineup while Simon Becher is on a heater. He scored in this one to make it five goals in his last five matches.

Simon Becher is composed in front of goal!@stlCITYsc are level. pic.twitter.com/wTNu2sYAxh

Previous: 3-1 win at VAN | Next: 9/9 at POR

The Fire are quietly undefeated over their last six matches. They made it three draws in a row this weekend in a wild 4-4 stalemate against Toronto FC. The Reds recovered from a 4-3 deficit thanks to a 90+2’ equalizer. As good as they’ve become under Gregg Berhalter, Chicago’s longtime tendency to give up late goals and give away leads still pops up from time to time.

They’re still one of the league's best defensive sides this year, though. We can call this performance an outlier.

Previous: 4-4 draw at TOR | Next: 9/9 vs. MIA

Back-to-back 0-0 draws won’t get people amped, but keeping San Jose and Charlotte off the board in back-to-back weeks is worth appreciating.

The Dynamo are becoming one of the most impenetrable defensive sides in the league. They’ve kept seven (7!) clean sheets in their nine matches since the World Cup. Only Vancouver and LAFC have given up fewer goals in the West.

Previous: 0-0 draw at CLT | Next: 9/9 vs. RSL

It’s been a while since LAFC have earned all three points. Their draw with RSL over the weekend made it four points across six matches.

They’ve got 10 games now to find a groove before the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs. Otherwise, a quick exit might be waiting for them.

Previous: 2-2 draw at RSL | Next: 9/9 vs. RBNY

Sometimes, it’s hard to go across the country and earn points. It’s even harder when you can’t catch a break. The Revs outshot the LA Galaxy 25-7, but were chasing the game the entire way after conceding a penalty in the 11th minute. The good news is that no one else in the top seven in the East won this weekend. New England are still in a home playoff spot.

Previous: 2-1 loss at LA | Next: 9/9 at NYC

Just another casual brace for Petar Musa over the weekend. He scored his 17th and 18th goals of the season to equal Lionel Messi in the Golden Boot presented by Audi race and give Dallas a (much too stressful based on the competition) 4-3 win.

Three points is three points, but there are worries defensively. Dallas have allowed 14 goals over their last four games. Musa can only do so much.

Petar Musa scores twice to lead the comeback win for @FCDallas in a 7-goal thriller 💪 pic.twitter.com/GTmrxiFD5C

Previous: 4-3 win vs. SKC | Next: 9/9 at MIN

Charlotte’s attack ran into a Houston side hell-bent on keeping clean sheets these days. The Crown had scored 11 times in four matches before their 0-0 draw with the Dynamo over the weekend.

Games against CF Montréal and FC Cincinnati this week will give them plenty of chances to get back on track.

Previous: 0-0 draw vs. HOU | Next: 9/9 at MTL

Sixteen-year-old Cavan Sullivan scored his fourth goal of the season and the Philadelphia Union rolled past Montréal in a 2-0 win. Sullivan has a goal contribution in each of the last five matches and Philly are looking a whole lot like the team who won the Supporters’ Shield last year (and a lot less like the team that looked like they might win the Spoon at the start of this year).

They’ve taken 20 points in their eight matches since parting ways with former head coach Bradley Carnell and placing Ryan Richter in charge. Their start was bad enough that they’re still only on 27 points, but, hey, they’re above the playoff line now.

Cavan Sullivan slams it! 🔥The 16-year-old doubles the Philadelphia lead and celebrates Lebron-style. pic.twitter.com/Wb3QVa0ldx

Previous: 2-0 win vs. MTL | Next: 9/9 vs. CIN

In the first of three consecutive matches against teams below the playoff line, the Rapids' trip to Columbus went poorly. Capitalizing on matchups with Austin and Montréal this week will be critical for their playoff hopes.

Previous: 3-0 loss at CLB | Next: 9/9 at ATX

Despite having to wade through the Central Florida air on a hot summer night, Antoine Griezmann scored the game’s lone goal as Orlando beat San Diego, 1-0. He’s up to five goals in eight appearances now for the Lions, and Orlando have taken seven points over their last three matches.

Who else but Grizi?! 🔥Antoine Griezmann puts @OrlandoCitySC ahead against San Diego.📺 Apple TV: https://t.co/VP5aqMcf4j pic.twitter.com/jQAZ8PaFGk

Previous: 1-0 win vs. SD | Next: 9/9 at ATL

A long trip to Orlando got the better of San Diego in a 1-0 loss. They stayed above the playoff line, though, as they head into a huge three-game stretch against San Jose, Philadelphia and Miami. A few points from that run would set them up well heading into the homestretch.

Previous: 1-0 loss at ORL | Next: 9/9 vs. SJ

New York City FC are winless in their last six, but a draw against Nashville is a solid result in a vacuum. They’re clinging to a playoff spot, but, at this point, they’re just as close to 14th-place Atlanta United in the standings as they are to fifth-place Charlotte.

Previous: 0-0 draw vs. NSH | Next: 9/9 vs. NE

Minnesota United have taken a break from being themselves in recent weeks. The normally reserved Loons have seen a combined 21 goals go in over the last three matches. Nine (!!!) of them came in this weekend’s 5-4 loss to Portland.

It’s ok to let your hair down now and then, but you do still have to deal with your responsibilities at some point, especially when you’re suddenly a point below the playoff line.

Previous: 5-4 loss at POR | Next: 9/9 vs. DAL

No match for Cincy over the weekend. That gave them some extra time to prepare for a critical two-game week against Philly and Charlotte.

Previous: PPD vs. DC | Next: 9/9 at PHI

In his first start, new striker Vincent Janssen became the first-ever Timbers player to earn a hat trick in MLS. Janssen led Portland to a 5-4 win over Minnesota and made everyone immediately feel a little better about losing former striker Kevin Kelsy to Rangers.

Vincent Janssen bagged the first hat trick in @TimbersFC history to spearhead the 5-4 win. 🎩 pic.twitter.com/szDsWv8qUv

Previous: 5-4 win vs. MIN | Next: 9/9 vs. STL

New midfielder Sergi Roberto earned rave reviews in the Galaxy’s 2-1 win over New England.

Yeah, if you look at the stats, they caught a few breaks. But Roberto & Co. did what they needed to do to hold on to an early 2-0 lead.

Previous: 2-1 win vs. NE | Next: 9/9 at VAN

For all of San Jose’s struggles, it still feels weird to see them all the way down here at 20. They’re still at 35 points and a +6 goal differential while sitting sixth in the West.

Then again, their draw with Austin over the weekend made it one win in their last 13 games. One of the league’s best teams at the start of the year seems to be running out of batteries.

Previous: 1-1 draw at ATX | Next: 9/9 at SD

Josh Sargent put on a show in Toronto’s hectic 4-4 draw against Chicago. Sargent’s hat trick gave him seven goals this season and five goal contributions in his last four matches. It seems like he’s finding his footing after a slow start.

In very related news, Toronto have taken 10 points from their last six games and are just a point below the playoff line.

Josh Sargent bagged his first MLS hat trick in style 👏 pic.twitter.com/Ww3zxwOwRA

Previous: 4-4 draw vs. CHI | Next: 9/9 vs. NSH

A 2-2 draw against LAFC is a fine result. It stops the bleeding a bit anyway. The draw ended a four-match losing streak across MLS and Leagues Cup play.

Still, RSL haven’t won in MLS since two matches before the World Cup. They’re in 10th place in the West.

Previous: 2-2 draw vs. LAFC | Next: 9/9 at HOU

There’s little to report from their 0-0 draw with Red Bull New York. Seattle haven’t won any of their last 11 MLS matches.

Previous: 0-0 draw vs. RBNY | Next: 9/12 at LA

They were skidding for a while, but the Crew changed course in their 3-0 win over Colorado. It’s their first MLS win since beating Cincy on July 25.

Previous: 3-0 win vs. COL | Next: 9/9 at DC

New DP striker Breel Embolo converted from the spot in his MLS debut and his ability to drop deep and connect with his teammates immediately made Atlanta look more cohesive in attack.

He helped power Atlanta to a 2-2 draw against Inter Miami in yet another odd instance of the Five Stripes annoying the you-know-what out of Messi & Co.

Previous: 2-2 draw at MIA | Next: 9/9 vs. ORL

Sometimes it’s just nice to keep a clean sheet. The Baby Bulls did just that in their 0-0 draw with Seattle. New York are equal on points with ninth-place Philly.

Previous: 0-0 draw at SEA | Next: 9/9 at LAFC

No match for D.C. last week. Winnable (and therefore critical) games against Columbus and Atlanta are on the way this week.

Previous: PPD at CIN | Next: 9/9 vs. CLB

Austin drew 1-1 with San Jose to quietly make it four games unbeaten in MLS. The playoffs are still a long shot, but a five-point gap isn’t totally insurmountable.

Previous: 1-1 draw vs. SJ | Next: 9/9 vs. COL

The Union were the better side in a 2-0 loss for Montréal. Montréal are in last place in the East.

Previous: 2-0 loss at PHI | Next: 9/9 vs. CLT

Sporting KC didn’t win, but one of the league’s least productive attacks found a spark in their 4-3 loss to Dallas. Taylor Calheira had a brace in the loss.

Previous: 4-3 loss at DAL | Next: 9/12 vs. LAFC
