TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Trade

St. Louis CITY SC have acquired striker Rafael Navarro from the Colorado Rapids, the clubs announced Wednesday.

The 26-year-old Brazilian arrives for a club-record $12 million via a cash-for-player trade, plus an additional $250,000 in conditional compensation. Colorado also hold a sell-on percentage.

Navarro was a Designated Player in Colorado and will remain one for St. Louis. He is under contract through the 2029-30 season with an option for 2030-31.

"When we started the search for a striker who could fit our system, Rafa’s profile really stood out to us, and he quickly became one of our main targets," said St. Louis sporting director Corey Wray.

"We knew there was significant interest in Rafa, but we were determined to make him a priority for us. He is not only a proven goalscorer in this league, but he brings so much to the team through his work ethic, pressing, link-up play and overall presence in the attack. His effort on both sides of the ball, combined with his ability to score goals and create opportunities for his teammates, will be a big boost to our group.

"We believe Rafa is entering the prime years of his career, and we are excited to bring him to St. Louis and get him integrated into the group as soon as possible."

Rafael Navarro is #AllForCITY 🔴 pic.twitter.com/jD7xp4kRYj

Navarro joined Colorado midway through the 2023 season, arriving on loan from Brazilian powerhouse Palmeiras before making a permanent move the following year.

While with the Rapids, Navarro tallied 44 goals and 16 assists in 114 games across all competitions. He's reached double-digit goals in three straight campaigns and was Colorado's leading scorer in 2026 with 10 goals.

"Rafa has made an outstanding contribution to the Rapids, both through his performances on the field and the energy and personality he brought to the club every day," said Rapids president Pádraig Smith.

"He represented the Rapids with passion and professionalism, scored important goals, and built a genuine connection with our supporters. We are enormously grateful for everything he gave to the club and for the role he played in our success.

"While decisions like this are never easy, we believe this move is right for both Rafa and the club as we continue to shape the roster around Matt [Wells'] game model. Rafa leaves with our sincere appreciation, and we wish him and his family every success in this next chapter."

Obrigado, Rafa ❤️ pic.twitter.com/gsy3oRZ2Vz

In St. Louis, Navarro joins an attack that previously added DP midfielder Carlo Holse and USMNT forward Damion Downs this summer. Conversely, midfielders Marcel Hartel (transfer to Hannover 96) and Eduard Löwen (trade to San Jose Earthquakes) were transferred out.

Navarro is Colorado's second major departure this summer after center back Lucas Herrington was transferred to English Premier League side Hull City. Their outgoing fees amount to reportedly up to around $35 million.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
