TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Trade

SKC receive: Owen Wolff

ATX receive: Up to $7.6 million, sell-on %

Sporting Kansas City have acquired midfielder Owen Wolff from Austin FC, the clubs announced Wednesday.

In exchange for the 21-year-old US youth international, Austin receive up to $7.6 million in a cash-for-player trade and a sell-on percentage. The funds include $4.5 million guaranteed and $3.1 million that's conditional.

Wolff will maintain his U22 Initiative roster spot with Sporting KC and is under contract through June 2031. He was Austin's first-ever homegrown signing in September 2021.

"We are extremely excited to welcome Owen to Kansas City," said David Lee, SKC's president of soccer operations & general manager.

"Owen is one of the top young players in MLS with excellent technical quality who can add goals and assists to the team, while his versatility to play in multiple positions will make him a key asset for our coaching staff.

"We want to be a destination for the top domestic talent around the league and Owen fits perfectly into that model following his standout season in 2025 with Austin."

Now in his sixth professional season, Wolff produced 10 goals and 23 assists in 147 games (all competitions) with Austin. He placed No. 4 overall on last year's 22 Under 22 Rankings.

Internationally, Wolff helped the US make the quarterfinals at the 2023 FIFA U-20 World Cup.

Wolff's father, Josh, is a former Austin FC manager and current assistant coach with Minnesota United FC.

“Owen is a terrific young player. He began his professional career here in Austin, grew a tremendous amount, and endeared himself to the fanbase," said Austin interim head coach Davy Arnaud.

"As the club’s first-ever homegrown signing and youngest-ever player, Owen will always have a special place in Austin FC history."

In recent days, Sporting KC have been especially busy before the MLS Secondary Transfer Window closes on Sept. 2.

They spent a club-record fee (reportedly $18 million plus add-ons) to acquire winger André Luiz, and moved on from two Designated Players in striker Dejan Joveljić (trade to Seattle Sounders FC) and midfielder Manu García (mutual contract termination).

The moves come as Sporting KC are last in the MLS and Western Conference tables (15 points), and are revamping their roster during Lee's first season at the helm.

Wolff is Austin's third outgoing midfielder this summer; they also traded Dani Pereira to CF Montréal and have Nicolás Dubersarsky on loan in Argentina.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
