TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Loan

The LA Galaxy have acquired winger Hirving "Chucky" Lozano in a blockbuster deal with Western Conference rivals San Diego FC, the clubs announced Friday.

The Mexican international joins LA on loan through December 2026 with a permanent trade option. He will occupy a Designated Player roster spot.

Lozano has spent the entire 2026 campaign on the sidelines for the Chrome-and-Azul, after head coach Mikey Varas and sporting director Tyler Heaps confirmed he was not in the club's plans ahead of SDFC's second MLS season.

Now, Lozano joins a Galaxy attack headlined by Joseph Paintsil, Marco Reus and João Klauss. They recently transferred Gabriel Pec to Brazilian Série A side Cruzeiro for a club-record fee.

“Hirving is a player whom we tried to acquire three years ago, so this feels like something of a full-circle moment. He is a fierce competitor with an excellent track record of performing on teams that have competed for titles in multiple leagues, including his debut season in MLS," said LA general manager Will Kuntz.

"As we evaluated opportunities to strengthen our roster for the stretch run of the season, it became clear that Hirving was the right player for the moment we are in as a club. We have a talented group, a strong locker room, and a clear objective over these final 15 games of the season, and we are thrilled that Hirving and his family are joining the Galaxy."

San Diego's first-ever DP signing, Lozano helped lead the club to historic heights during their inaugural 2025 campaign. They set expansion records for points (63) and wins (19), then reached the Western Conference Final.

The 31-year-old tallied 11g/11a in 31 appearances across the regular season and Audi MLS Cup Playoffs.

As Lozano heads on loan, Anders Dreyer and Elias Achouri are San Diego's remaining DPs. Dreyer is a two-time MLS All-Star and was named the 2025 MLS Newcomer of the Year, while Achouri recently arrived from Danish Superliga powerhouse FC Copenhagen.

“We have been working with Hirving and his side to find the right opportunity for him to get him back on the field,” said Heaps. “We appreciate his contributions during our record-setting inaugural season and wish him well as he continues his career.”

Before his time in Southern California, Lozano featured for Dutch giants PSV Eindhoven, Italian powerhouse Napoli and LIGA MX side Pachuca. In total, he's recorded 135g/85a in 462 games.

Internationally, Lozano has scored 18 goals in 75 appearances for Mexico. He played at both the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cups.

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
