Evander hit a personal milestone on Saturday – and delivered FC Cincinnati their most dramatic win of the season in the process.

The All-Star Brazilian playmaker scored his first career MLS hat trick to pace 10-man FC Cincinnati to a thrilling 3-2 come-from-behind victory at Chicago Fire FC.

“When I think about it, I can say that it took me a while to score," Evander said post-match after improving to 5g/1a on the season. "I have had a couple of opportunities to score.

"All I can say is that God gave me the hat trick at the right moment."

Chicago's own star Designated Player, Hugo Cuypers, was the early favorite for Man-of-the-Match honors. The Belgian striker netted a first-half brace to put the hosts ahead at Soldier Field while scoring for the seventh consecutive game – a new club record.

Cuypers' two strikes also put him atop the Golden Boot presented by Audi race with FC Dallas' Petar Musa (10).

In the dying moments, Cuypers looked likely to be the hero, but his late penalty kick was thwarted by goalkeeper Roman Celentano.

Minutes later, Evander was money from the spot, burying the game-winner, ensuring Cincy took all three points despite Kyle Smith's 58th-minute red card.

“Sometimes, this stuff doesn’t make sense," head coach Pat Noonan told reporters post-match. "That’s kind of how it felt in the second half. Sitting here with that group, somehow winning the game… the red card changes the game.

"And credit to the guys for the way they figured things out.”

With five goals in his last four matches, Evander looks to be regaining the form that earned him back-to-back MLS Best XI selections in 2024 and 2025.

He's also extended Cincy's unbeaten streak to five games, including two consecutive wins. The Orange & Blue have quietly crept up to fifth in the Eastern Conference standings (15 points; 4W-4L-3D).

“I think that we, as a team, are trying to get back to our best moments," Evander said.

“What I can say is that, right now, things are turning our way, and we are beginning to get all the luck that we did not have at the beginning of the season.”
