Major League Soccer will have two transfer windows during the 2026 season:

Primary Transfer Window: Monday, January 26 to Thursday, March 26

Secondary Transfer Window: Monday, July 13 to Wednesday, September 2

With the Secondary Window extending into September for the first time in two decades (excluding the COVID-adjusted 2020 season), the conclusion of the MLS window will align with top leagues from around the world, giving MLS teams a greater opportunity to acquire high-quality international talent in their run to the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs.

In addition, FIFA approved a request to allow all three Canadian MLS clubs – CF Montréal, Toronto FC and Vancouver Whitecaps FC – to adhere to the registration periods established by U.S. Soccer rather than Canada Soccer.

Per FIFA regulations, MLS clubs may request the International Transfer Certificate (ITC) of a player under contract in another country only during one of the two annual registration periods fixed by the relevant association.

The first registration period must be a minimum of eight weeks but not exceed 12 weeks. The second registration period shall occur in the middle of the season and must be a minimum of four weeks but not exceed eight weeks. The cumulative total of both registration periods may not exceed 16 weeks.

Roster Compliance Deadline: Friday, February 20 (8 pm ET)

Roster Freeze: Friday, October 9

Clubs must be roster and budget-compliant by February 20, one day before Matchday 1 of the 2026 MLS season.

Rosters lock in roughly one month before Decision Day (November 7). Between the Secondary Transfer Window end and the Roster Freeze Date, clubs can sign out-of-contract free agents.

2026 MLS Transfers: Tracking every club's roster moves

MLS also announced amendments to the 2026 Roster Rules and Regulations that are now in effect for clubs:

Elimination of limitations on the number of Cash for Player Trades a club can make each season.

Elimination of age restrictions and limitations on the number of Intraleague Loans a club can make each season.

Removed the deadline for a player to be considered a domestic player for a season instead of an international player.

Clubs may agree that an International Roster Slot traded within or prior to the Primary Transfer Window will return to the original club on a specific date within the Secondary Transfer Window. These agreements must be definitive.

Designated Players acquired via Cash for Player Trades in the Secondary Transfer Window may be added at the mid-season Designated Player Salary Budget Charge.

Players who have appeared on a gameday roster are eligible to be placed in Supplemental Slot 31 as long as they meet the other Slot 31 requirements.
