New club, same old Rafael Navarro.

One week after being traded to St. Louis CITY SC from the Colorado Rapids in the largest cash-for-player trade in MLS history (up to $12.25 million), Navarro made his first start for his new club.

And it didn't take long for the Brazilian star striker to give STL fans a glimpse of the ruthless scoring ability he possesses, netting a brace during Wednesday's wild 2-2 draw against the Portland Timbers.

Rafael Navarro with the finish and @stlCITYsc take the lead just seconds in 👊 pic.twitter.com/DEmEMhbzmy

After only 34 seconds, Navarro announced himself to the St. Louis faithful, taking center stage by giving his new side the lead. Charging into the box, he reacted quickest to reach a Tomas Totland cross and bundle the ball across the line.

Following an equalizer from Portland's Kristoffer Velde, Navarro restored St. Louis' advantage in the 51st minute, heading home a deflected cross from close range. Velde would not be denied a birthday brace of his own, however, tallying an 89th-minute free kick to salvage a draw.

The double brings the Brazilian up to 12g/4a in MLS this season.

Rafael Navarro gets his second of the night in Portland 👊 pic.twitter.com/dQ24G1poY1

Navarro's goalscoring form is not only a welcome sight for St. Louis CITY, but it has also helped the Midwestern side continue their stunning unbeaten run.

With the draw, St. Louis increased their streak to 15 straight matches without a loss across all competitions, including a 14-game streak in MLS play.

Their incredible form has seen them rise to sixth in the Western Conference (38 points), level with fifth-place San Jose and just two points behind FC Dallas for the fourth and final home playoff place.

St. Louis are already the hottest team in MLS. Now, with their new striker immediately coming up clutch, trophy aspirations, as well as a deep Audi MLS Cup Playoffs run, have begun to take shape.

They're back in action on Saturday when they host Minnesota United FC (8:30 pm ET | Apple TV) at Energizer Park.
