One of the biggest opening statements of Leagues Cup 2026 came on Thursday night, courtesy of the Portland Timbers.

The Timbers soared to the top of the MLS Phase One standings thanks to a 5-2 rout of Club Puebla at Providence Park.

In a competition that awards just four spots per league table (MLS & LIGA MX) to the quarterfinals, the lopsided result solidifies Portland as an early contender to advance to the knockout rounds and make a possible run at the trophy.

Three players in particular were at the heart of the action, notching multiple goal involvements in the blowout victory.

Ariel Lassiter opened the scoring early, before Cole Bassett netted a brace on either side of David Da Costa's goal, giving the Timbers a 4-1 halftime lead.

Lassiter closed things out with a brace of his own just before the hour mark. In addition to his goal, Da Costa contributed two assists.

“Obviously when I take a step back, it’s a good evening all around,” interim head coach Jack Cassidy said postgame. “The players have created a real togetherness. There’s a real good energy in the group.

"We said nine weeks ago that we wanted to create a higher bar, and we’ve done that.”

One of MLS's hottest teams coming into Leagues Cup, Portland built on their four-game undefeated streak (3W-0L-1D) in league play with a dominant display on the international stage.

However, the competition won't get any easier. First, the Timbers will host LIGA MX giants Club América on Sunday (10:15 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/club-america-vs-portland-timbers/umc.cse.5gemt16ztgqdpe2k4yf7zwyed" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>; FS1, Univision) before closing out Phase One action on Aug. 13 against Gilberto Mora and Club Tijuana.

MLS teams will likely need at least seven points from the three matches to advance to the knockout rounds.

The Timbers will like their chances, especially with all three of their Phase One games taking place at Providence Park.

“There’s been an amazing energy in the stadium since we’ve had these home games,” said Cassidy. “I think the players’ performances have generated that energy. The noise, the atmosphere, it makes a massive difference.

"The home games have just filled us with so much energy.”
