Twenty-nine players will represent Major League Soccer against the <a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/allstar/2026/news/2026-liga-mx-all-star-team-roster" target="_blank">LIGA MX All-Stars</a> during the 2026 MLS All-Star Game presented by Chime, which is held on July 29 at Charlotte FC's Bank of America Stadium (8 pm ET | <a href="https://soc.cr/4bc1VvL" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

Maxime Crépeau - Orlando City | Coach's Selection

Matt Freese - New York City FC | Coach's Selection

Brian Schwake - Nashville SC | Voted In

Max Arfsten - Columbus Crew | Coach's Selection

Lucas Herrington - Colorado Rapids | Coach's Selection

Richie Laryea - Toronto FC | Commissioner's Pick

Anthony Markanich - Minnesota United FC | Voted In

Steven Moreira - Columbus Crew | Coach's Selection

Daniel Munie - San Jose Earthquakes | Coach's Selection

Andy Najar - Nashville SC | Voted In

Jackson Ragen - Seattle Sounders FC | Coach's Selection

Tim Ream - Charlotte FC | Voted In

Sebastian Berhalter - Vancouver Whitecaps FC | Voted In

Pep Biel - Charlotte FC | Coach's Selection

Yannick Bright - Inter Miami CF | Coach's Selection

Andrés Cubas - Vancouver Whitecaps FC | Coach's Selection

Evander - FC Cincinnati | Coach's Selection

Carles Gil - New England Revolution | Coach's Selection

Zavier Gozo - Real Salt Lake | Voted In

Hany Mukhtar - Nashville SC | Voted In

Thomas Müller - Vancouver Whitecaps FC | Coach's Selection

Ashley Westwood - Charlotte FC | Coach's Selection

Anders Dreyer - San Diego FC | Coach's Selection

Guilherme - Houston Dynamo FC | Coach's Selection

Julian Hall - Red Bull New York | Commissioner's Pick

Son Heung-Min - LAFC | Voted In

Petar Musa - FC Dallas | Coach's Selection

Sam Surridge - Nashville SC | Coach's Selection

Philip Zinckernagel - Chicago Fire FC | Coach's Selection

Roster update (July 25): Hugo Cuypers, Rodrigo De Paul, Mbekezeli Mbokazi and Lionel Messi were initially named to the roster, but were replaced for various reasons.

Purchase 2026 MLS All-Star Game tickets

Dreyer has 6g/9a in 17 games this season, building off his 2025 MLS Newcomer of the Year performance during San Diego FC's historic expansion campaign.

The Danish international is the second-fastest player in MLS history to record 20g/20a.

In his first season with the Houston Dynamo, Guilherme has been the club's go-to man in attack, leading the team in goals (nine) and assists (seven).

He joined the Dynamo from Brazilian Série A side Santos, where he won the 2025 Campeonato Paulista Golden Boot while playing alongside Neymar.

Hall has leveled up this season, tallying 9g/4a in 17 games as Red Bull New York's starting striker.

In May, the USMNT prospect became the youngest player to score an MLS regular-season hat trick – doing so at 18 years and 50 days old.

Son is experiencing his first full MLS season after joining LAFC last summer on a league-record deal from Tottenham Hotspur.

The South Korean superstar has tallied a league-high 10 assists and recently competed at his fourth FIFA World Cup.

One of MLS’s most consistent goalscorers over the past three seasons, Musa earns his second All-Star nod with FC Dallas.

The Croatian international's stellar form (13g/2a) earned him a spot at the 2026 World Cup, where he scored against England in the Group Stage.

Surridge is the focal point of Nashville's vaunted attack, which has them in Supporters' Shield contention after winning the 2025 US Open Cup.

The English striker has 10 goals in 11 matches this year, giving him a third straight season with double-digit goals.

In his second season in the Windy City, Zinckernagel is once again a key piece of the Chicago Fire's attack.

Following the departure of striker Hugo Cuypers, the Danish winger is now the team leader in both goals (five) and assists (seven). This is his second consecutive All-Star selection.

A star for Vancouver and the USMNT, Berhalter receives his second straight All-Star nod.

The all-action midfielder enjoyed a breakout 2025 season, earning MLS Best XI honors and sparking his USMNT career. He scored at the World Cup this summer and has 6g/7a for the Whitecaps in 2026.

One of the league’s top No. 10s, Biel leads Charlotte FC in goal contributions (8g/7a). The Spanish playmaker is in his third year with the Crown and makes his All-Star debut.

Often relied upon as the engine in the Inter Miami midfield, Bright earns the first All-Star selection of his career.

He's enjoyed a breakout season in 2026, starting 13 of the 14 matches he's featured in and adding two assists.

One of MLS's most tenacious holding midfielders, Cubas has been a consistent fixture in the Vancouver Whitecaps' starting XI.

The 30-year-old's club success helped him earn a roster spot on the Paraguay national team at the 2026 World Cup, where he played every single minute for La Albirroja.

One of the top attacking midfielders in MLS, Evander is on pace for his third straight season with double-digit goals and assists.

FC Cincinnati's Brazilian superstar earned MLS Best XI honors in 2024 and 2025, making him a perennial MVP candidate.

Gil earns his fifth All-Star nod after leading New England in goal contributions.

Earlier this year, the 2021 MLS MVP joined the exclusive 50/50 club (goals, assists) as he paced the Revolution's record start.

A breakout star with Real Salt Lake, Gozo has 11 goal contributions (6g/5a) during his second season as a regular starter.

The 19-year-old homegrown player is the second teenager to be named an MLS All-Star in the last five editions, joining Seattle Sounders FC alum Obed Vargas (2025).

Mukhtar earns his fifth All-Star nod, a testament to the 2022 MLS MVP's consistency in Nashville.

The German playmaker is the third-fastest player in MLS history to reach 150 regular-season goal contributions.

The German national team and Bayern Munich legend earns his first MLS All-Star nod after joining Vancouver last summer.

Müller has won 35 trophies, a résumé highlighted by the 2014 FIFA World Cup title.

Westwood has been a consistent force since joining Charlotte in 2023 following stints at English clubs Aston Villa and Burnley.

The veteran sports the captain's armband for Dean Smith's side, a nod to his 600-plus professional games.

Arfsten gets his second straight All-Star nod as a game-changing wingback for the Columbus Crew.

The 25-year-old’s club form translated to a USMNT roster spot at the 2026 World Cup.

One of the world’s most exciting young center backs, Herrington has played nearly every minute of his debut season with the Rapids.

This summer, the 19-year-old became the youngest-ever MLS and Australian player to start a World Cup match.

Now a two-time World Cup veteran with Canada, Laryea has been one of MLS’s most consistent fullbacks across two memorable stints with Toronto FC.

This is the veteran's first All-Star selection.

Markanich is among the league's top attacking defenders, scoring 13 regular-season goals for Minnesota United over the last season and a half.

The left back earns his first All-Star nod.

The 2024 MLS Defender of the Year is headed to his second All-Star Game.

Moreira stole headlines at this summer’s World Cup as a key piece of Cape Verde’s historic Cinderella run to the knockout stages.

The San Jose Earthquakes have returned to prominence in 2026, and Munie is a big reason why.

The 26-year-old center back is in his fourth MLS season and has developed under the guidance of famed head coach Bruce Arena.

A veteran Honduran international, Nájar has earned a second straight All-Star nod.

The attack-minded fullback has five assists as Nashville pace the Supporters’ Shield race.

With Ragen anchoring their defense, Seattle have conceded just 1.5 goals per game.

The center back has been a consistent starter for the Sounders since 2022, often partnering with Yeimar Gómez Andrade.

Ream captained the United States to their Round of 16 finish at this summer's World Cup.

Now, the center back will savor the opportunity to play in front of his home fans in Charlotte.

An MLS veteran, Crépeau is in his first season with Orlando City and is among the league leaders in saves.

At the 2026 World Cup, he started every match of Canada’s historic run to the Round of 16.

The USMNT's starting goalkeeper at the 2026 World Cup, Freese helped guide the tournament co-hosts to the Round of 16.

The New York City FC standout finished second in last season’s MLS Goalkeeper of the Year voting.

Schwake has taken the league by storm during his first season as Nashville's starter, taking the reins from veteran Joe Willis.

With Schwake's form, Nashville are contending for the Supporters' Shield title and dreaming of more silverware.

The original roster was selected through a combination of voting (12 players), selections by MLS All-Star coach Dean Smith (12 players) and those picked by MLS Commissioner Don Garber (2 players).
