When Antoine Griezmann scores, Orlando City win.

At least that's been the case during the Frenchman's first two months as a Lion, as Griezmann scored his first MLS brace to fuel Orlando City's 2-1 comeback victory over Real Salt Lake on Saturday night at Inter.co Stadium.

With the three points, Griezmann successfully led the Lions into an Audi MLS Cup Playoffs spot for the first time this season.

After falling behind in the first half to a tidy finish by Dominik Marczuk, Orlando found an equalizer in the 53rd minute. Cleaning up a saved attempt from recent returnee Daryl Dike, Griezmann capitalized at the back post for a tap-in.

The dramatic late match-winner arrived in the 81st minute when Griezmann followed up his attempted backheel, slotting his finish into the back of the net to secure the come-from-behind win for the home side.

“Every time I say that the stadium is very important for us in the bad moments, we need them. Today was amazing," Griezmann said of the inspiring atmosphere postgame.

"When we scored the first goal, we had, I don’t know, maybe another power with the crowd. It was amazing. They pushed a lot."

With his brace, the French World Cup winner has now scored in three of Orlando’s four wins since he arrived from LaLiga powerhouse Atlético Madrid.

Notching six goal contributions (4g/2a) across nine appearances in all competitions, Griezmann's presence has become a primary driver of the Lions’ recent resurgence as a playoff contender.

“He is a great example of what a great football player can be,” said interim head coach Martín Perelman. “We are extremely lucky to be able to count on him. It is not easy to come to MLS, as a lot is asked of him, and he is doing well, but he is still human. He, too, needs time to adapt to the league.

"He is one of the best players in the history of the game. We need to enjoy him. We are required to enjoy being able to have him. It is an obligation. I enjoy having him here, his teammates do as well, as do the fans. I am happy that he scored both of his goals, and I think that he is enjoying his time with us, too.”

Griezmann and Orlando City now head to Allianz Field to take on Minnesota United FC in a pivotal cross-conference matchup as they continue their playoff push on Saturday (8:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/minnesota-united-vs-orlando-city/umc.cse.2gxle7i8w5y7jxphjncqe2gae?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.4000%2Ctvs.sbd.7000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

“We need to continue working. It was a very important victory. A tough one, a needed one,” said Perelman.

“It was important, but it was three points. Now we need to rest to then be able to come back during the week, work, improve as much as we can, compete, and get the result in Minnesota, which is never easy."
