Led by Brazilian superstar Evander, FC Cincinnati will look to build on their Leagues Cup\-opening win when they host Pumas UNAM in a Phase One matchup on Friday evening.

<a href="https://soc.cr/3RojUsr" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

UniMás

Friday, Aug. 7 | 8 pm ET/5 pm PT

TQL Stadium | Cincinnati, Ohio

In Phase One, each team plays three matches against opponents from the opposite league. The top four clubs from each league-specific table advance to the quarterfinals.

The tournament champion will be crowned on Sept. 6. Additionally, the top three finishers qualify for the 2027 Concacaf Champions Cup.

Leagues Cup tickets

Standings

5th in MLS Leagues Cup table

3 points (1W-0L-0D)

Last match

FC Cincinnati opened Phase One with a 3-1 comeback victory over CF Pachuca.

After falling behind to an Adrián Alcaraz goal, Evander equalized with a spectacular golazo before Pavel Bucha and Kenji Mboma Dem found the back of the net to seal the result.

Players to watch

Evander: One of MLS's premier No. 10s, Evander has reminded everyone of his quality and ability to deliver game-changing moments in recent weeks, scoring plenty of long-ranged golazos. The perennial MLS MVP candidate is up to 11g/11a in league play this year.

Kévin Denkey: The Togo international striker has racked up 26 goals over the last two seasons since arriving from Belgian side Cercle Brugge in 2025.

Pavel Bucha: The Czechia international has broken through as one of FCC's key players over the last two seasons, with the ability to make an impact on both ends of the field.

Miles Robinson: The standout center back anchors Cincy's back line and represented the United States at the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Need to know

FC Cincinnati have been pouring in the goals since the World Cup break, scoring 13 times to win three of four games across all competitions.

Evander has been the catalyst of this offensive explosion, producing 3g/5a in that span. It's been quantity and quality from the Brazilian, who followed up his recent AT&T Goal of the Matchday\-winning stunner in MLS action with a golazo that helped the Orange & Blue open Leagues Cup play on a winning note.

Standings

18th in LIGA MX Leagues Cup table

0 points (0W-1L-0D)

Last match

Pumas entered Leagues Cup off an emphatic 5-1 victory over FC Juárez in LIGA MX play. The result marked Los Universitarios' second straight Apertura win.

However, Pumas came crashing back to Earth in their Leagues Cup opener as Charlotte FC handed them a comprehensive 3-0 defeat.

Players to watch

Coco Carrasquilla: MLS fans know the Panamanian international from his standout stint with Houston Dynamo FC. A member of Panama's 2026 World Cup squad, Carrasquilla remains the heartbeat of Pumas' midfield.

Pedro Vite: Another former MLS star, Vite spent five seasons with Vancouver Whitecaps FC before becoming a staple of Pumas' midfield. Vite also featured at the World Cup, representing Ecuador.

Uriel Antuna: The Mexico international winger and LA Galaxy alum brings an electric skillset to the team's attack.

Keylor Navas: The legendary Costa Rican goalkeeper captains Pumas after a memorable club career in Europe with Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain.

Need to know

Despite their setback in Charlotte, Pumas have opened the LIGA MX season in strong form and will arrive in Cincinnati knowing they must take all three points, or their Leagues Cup journey is over.

One of LIGA MX's most historic clubs, Los Universitarios are aiming to carry that domestic success into Leagues Cup as they seek a statement result in a must-win game against one of MLS's top contenders.
