Breel Embolo is available to debut when Atlanta United visit Inter Miami CF on Saturday evening (7:30 pm ET | Apple TV).

We don’t know how many minutes the reported $18 million signing and Swiss international will play or exactly how he'll look. But we know that Atlanta fans are praying their new Designated Player striker can hit the ground running. And we know their fingers are crossed that the big money the club spends will translate to big results.

They’re hoping that this is a step toward all of this feeling like 2018 again. At this point, they’d take 2019. Or even 2017.

After six years in the MLS wilderness, it’s eventually got to happen. Right?

😄 x2 pic.twitter.com/u0dSGCdgoE

In February 2020, star striker Josef Martínez tore his ACL in the first match of the season. Atlanta United have experienced more lows than highs ever since.

The last two years have been especially challenging. Heading into 2025, the Five Stripes were fantastic on paper. Fresh off a stunning upset of Inter Miami in the Audi 2024 MLS Cup Playoffs, they had a new DP striker in Emmanuel Latte Lath, legendary DP attacker Miguel Almirón and MLS Cup-winning head coach Ronny Deila set to lead them back to the top.

They went into the final match of the season set to battle D.C. United for last place.

Even with Argentine manager Tata Martino back in charge this year, it’s been more of the same. Until a couple of weeks ago, anyway.

Atlanta won, won again and then won one more time. It was their first three-match winning streak since September 2021. Admittedly, Red Bull New York, Minnesota United FC and Sporting Kansas City aren't exactly a murderer’s row. But momentum is momentum.

Annnndddddd then that momentum halted against Charlotte FC last weekend. Allan Saint-Maximin & Co. cruised to a 2-0 road win and the announced crowd of 40,385 at Mercedes-Benz Stadium – yes, Atlanta are still leading the league in attendance – went home wondering how much longer they’d have to keep waiting.

It will still be a moment. However (and stop me if you’ve heard this one before), there’s reason to think things are heading in the right direction. Embolo isn’t the only new arrival. He’s the most important piece of the puzzle for a team that’s scored fewer goals (25) than any other team in the Eastern Conference. But he’s not the only piece.

Atlanta have already integrated two new center backs into the lineup; Júnior Alonso and Paulo Díaz arrived earlier this summer. Alonso has already shown he can be excellent on the ball. Díaz has already shown he can be a bulldog of a defender. Both bring experience, on-ball ability, concerns about their pace in transition and a tenacity that’s been lacking at the back in Atlanta for a long time now. Hey, it can’t all be perfect.

They’ve also signed a new U22 Initiative midfielder. Mauricio Amaro is a rangy, ball-winning No. 6 who thrived in his native Uruguay thanks to his ability to send long balls over the top and out wide. He’s available to make his debut Saturday as well.

Atlanta even took a late flier on deadline day. Argentine midfielder Giuliano Galoppo will be with the club on loan from River Plate through at least the 2027 Sprint Season. Atlanta have a purchase option available if he performs well. The folks who have watched him seem to think there’s a decent chance of that.

Our latest U-22 signing ✍️ pic.twitter.com/SzilP6ZUrO

That’s five new players in. And that’s not even counting the sudden emergence of 20-year-old midfielder Adrian Gill, a product of FC Barcelona’s famed La Masia, as a starting-caliber MLS player.

With eight players out this summer and several contracts set to expire, Atlanta will have room to add this upcoming winter. They're ready to add more quality. The fans know that and the club knows that. But eventually feels a little closer than it did a few weeks ago.

Of course, so much of this has already been said before. You couldn’t blame anyone for being pessimistic. So let’s try and be realistic. Atlanta United haven't turned into a juggernaut overnight. They have very likely gotten better. It’s not clear if that means they’re actually good.

The rest of the year is about finding out. There will be plenty to assess as we get our first look at Embolo and the other new arrivals. There will be ups and downs. If there are more ups, then maybe a few folks will start to buy in again. The others will probably need a lot more than a few ups.

Still, there is at least a direction of travel with this team. You can see the club aiming to construct a possession-oriented, attack-heavy side where the player profiles fit with Martino’s tactics. That’s better than it has been.

Eventually, that could turn into earning points consistently. Eventually, that could turn into challenging for trophies again. Eventually, that could mean it all comes together as Atlanta have shown is possible.
