St. Louis CITY SC, you officially have MLS's attention.

In a Western Conference battle between two on-fire sides, it was St. Louis who came out on top, beating first-place Houston Dynamo FC, 2-1, at Energizer Park.

With Saturday's statement result, Yoann Damet's side extended their league unbeaten streak to 11 straight games (8W-0L-3D). And they continued their climb up the Western Conference table, level on 33 points with the fourth-place San Jose Earthquakes.

"The way we showed up tonight, the spirit for 98, 99 minutes was incredible," Damet told reporters postmatch.

"And I want the guys to enjoy that feeling in the locker room now"

St. Louis' scorching summer extended into Matchday 22, as striker Simon Becher opened the scoring in the 23rd minute with his third goal in as many games.

Ibrahim Aliyu came off the bench to net the 75th-minute leveller for Houston, who entered Saturday's game atop the West standings amid an eight-game unbeaten run.

However, Dante Polvara struck 10 minutes later to give St. Louis all three points.

"We have that confidence now in our identity and how we can go out and play against anybody in this league," said Becher. "Houston's a very good team, so we talked a lot about this being a game \[where\] we wanted to establish our identity and not change how we play.

"And I think again, it's more confidence for us going forward."

Saturday's win also marked an emotional farewell for Eduard Löwen.

The club's longtime Designated Player was dressed in street clothes at Energizer Park, omitted from the lineup ahead of a reported trade to the Earthquakes.

Löwen's teammates tossed the midfielder into the air after the final whistle, all but bidding farewell to a second German DP in as many weeks: Marcel Hartel was transferred to 2. Bundesliga side Hannover 96 earlier this month.

Despite the big-name roster turnover, St. Louis are not merely competing, but thriving.

According to Damet, there's an easy explanation.

"The key is the team. It's as simple as that," he said. "The team comes first."
