The final spots at the 2026 FIFA World Cup will be decided during the March international window, determining which six nations complete this summer's 48-team field.

The remaining berths are determined via the Intercontinental Playoffs (two spots) and UEFA Playoffs (four spots). Semifinals will be played on March 26, followed by the finals on March 31.

These last-chance qualifiers will feature nine MLS players spanning eight countries and eight clubs.

Three MLS players will feature in this pathway, which grants two tickets to the World Cup.

Bolivia

Efraín Morales: CF Montréal, Defender

Jamaica

Andre Blake: Philadelphia Union, Goalkeeper

Ian Fray: Inter Miami CF, Defender

Read more: Andre Blake & Jamaica seek World Cup ticket

Six MLS players will feature in this pathway, which provides four spots at the World Cup.

Albania

Myrto Uzuni: Austin FC, Forward

Czechia

Pavel Bucha: FC Cincinnati, Midfielder

Denmark

Anders Dreyer: San Diego FC, Forward

North Macedonia

Danny Musovski: Seattle Sounders FC, Forward

Sweden

Herman Johansson: FC Dallas, Defender/Midfielder

Ukraine

Oleksandr Svatok: Austin FC, Defender

Read more: Anders Dreyer chases World Cup dream with Denmark

Format

Sixteen (16) teams that advanced past the first round of European (UEFA) qualifying were drawn, via seeding pots, into four groups of four.

Each group features two single-leg semifinals, with the semifinal winners advancing to a single-leg final. The winners of each of the four UEFA playoff pathways advance to the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Pathway A

Semifinals

March 26: Wales vs. Bosnia & Herzegovina

March 26: Italy vs. Northern Ireland

Final

March 31: Wales vs. Bosnia & Herzegovina winner HOSTS Italy vs. Northern Ireland winner

Winner joins Group B at the World Cup alongside Canada, Qatar and Switzerland.

Pathway B

Semifinals

March 26: Ukraine vs. Sweden

March 26: Poland vs. Albania

Final

March 31: Ukraine vs. Sweden winner HOSTS Poland vs. Albania winner

Winner joins Group F at the World Cup alongside the Netherlands, Japan and Tunisia.

Pathway C

Semifinals

March 26: Slovakia vs. Kosovo

March 26: Türkiye vs. Romania

Final

March 31: Slovakia vs. Kosovo winner HOSTS Türkiye vs. Romania winner

Winner joins Group D at the World Cup alongside the United States, Australia and Paraguay.

Pathway D

Semifinals

March 26: Czechia vs. Ireland

March 26: Denmark vs. North Macedonia

Final

March 31: Czechia vs. Ireland winner HOSTS Denmark vs. North Macedonia winner

Winner joins Group A at the World Cup alongside Mexico, South Africa and South Korea.

Format

This play-in tournament features six teams: one from Asia, Africa, South America and Oceania, plus two from Concacaf. There are no European teams in the Intercontinental Playoffs.

The six teams are divided into two groups of three, with the lower-ranked teams facing off in the semifinals and the two higher-ranked teams receiving byes to their respective finals.

The semifinal winners will advance to the single-elimination final. The winner of the final advances to the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

These matches will all be held at neutral venues in Mexico.

Pathway A

Semifinal

March 26: New Calendonia vs. Jamaica

Final

March 31: New Calendonia vs. Jamaica winner vs. DR Congo

Winner joins Group K at the World Cup alongside Portugal, Uzbekistan and Colombia.

Playoff Pathway B

Semifinal

March 26: Bolivia vs. Suriname

Final

March 31: Bolivia vs. Suriname winner vs. Iraq

Winner joins Group I at the World Cup alongside France, Senegal and Norway.

World Cup guide

World Cup schedule

World Cup format

World Cup stadiums

How every team qualified for the World Cup
