Among a field full of US men's national team prospects at Sports Illustrated Stadium, Cavan Sullivan was the night's biggest star.

The Philadelphia Union's 16-year-old homegrown sensation stole the spotlight with a stunning game-winning goal in Saturday's 3-1 win at Red Bull New York.

“The goal that he scored, it is what he is capable of doing," Union interim head coach Ryan Richter said of Sullivan's game-changing abilities.

"It is in these one-versus-one situations that he is different. And we want to give him the freedom to express himself."

Sullivan's second goal in as many games was followed by a 65th-minute strike from fellow Philly homegrown and USMNT prospect Neil Pierre. The 18-year-old center back has 4g/1a in seven appearances - all of them coming after the 2026 FIFA World Cup break.

Both also outshone RBNY's own USMNT-linked homegrown duo of Julian Hall (18) and Adri Mehmeti (17). Ultimately, veteran striker Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting scored New York's lone consolation goal in the 74th minute.

Saturday's showing will only fuel further speculation about Sullivan getting a first USMNT call-up from manager Mauricio Pochettino ahead of next month's FIFA international window.

The US will face four nations across the United States - Peru, Chile, Mexico, and Canada - as they officially enter the 2030 World Cup cycle.

“I am not really focused on the whole call-up thing. But I am happy that we are winning games and that I am making a difference," Sullivan told reporters.

"The goals and assists are coming. I am just trying to keep this momentum."

Sullivan's goal was worth more than three points for the Union, who extended their MLS undefeated streak to seven straight games (5W-0L-2D record).

The tally marked his 10th goal contribution (3g/7a) of the season, tying Freddy Adu for the most goal contributions by a player 16 years old or younger in a single MLS season.

Additionally, Sullivan made it four straight MLS matches with a goal contribution. He now shares the longest such streak by an under-18 player with Ricardo Pepi (2021) and Diego Fagúndez (2013).

For Richter, Philadelphia's rising star proved once again that he's ready to shine on the big stage.

“We want to give him the freedom to express himself and, honestly, he has gained the respect of his teammates," Richter said.

"They also give him the freedom that he can go into these moments, because he can create something out of nothing.”
