Featuring two MLS defenders, South Africa seek their first point at the 2026 FIFA World Cup when they face Czechia on Thursday at Atlanta United's home stadium.

English: FOX

Spanish: Telemundo, Peacock

Thursday, June 18 | 12 pm ET/9 am PT

Atlanta Stadium | Atlanta, Georgia

The 2026 World Cup, expanded to 48 nations, runs from June 11 until July 19. The tournament is unfolding in 16 cities across the United States, Canada and Mexico.

The top two teams from each group and the top eight third-place finishers advance to the knockout phase (Round of 32).

FIFA World Ranking: 43

Confederation: UEFA (Europe)

Opening result: 2-1 loss vs. South Korea

After falling 2-1 against South Korea on the opening matchday, Czechia will look for a positive result against South Africa.

Despite captain Ladislav Krejči opening the scoring against the Taeguk Warriors, the South Koreans quickly flipped the script to take the 2-1 lead, before Tomáš Souček's potential equalizer was disallowed for offside.

Regardless, the danger Czechia posed on set pieces was evident, and they'll be hoping to capitalize vs. Bafana Bafana.

A win would be crucial to Czechia's chances of advancing to the knockout stages, while a loss would set up a must-win scenario against co-hosts Mexico in Miroslav Koubek's side's final Group A match on June 24.

FIFA World Ranking: 61

Confederation: CAF (Africa)

Opening result: 2-0 loss vs. Mexico

Following an opening 2-0 loss against co-hosts Mexico in Mexico City, South Africa are looking to get their 2026 World Cup campaign back on track with a win against Czechia.

Chicago Fire FC center back Mbekezeli Mbokazi delivered an impressive 90-minute performance in the opener, which Bafana Bafana will need again to produce a positive result on Thursday.

However, midfielders Sphephelo Sithole and Themba Zwane will both be suspended against Czechia after receiving red cards in the tournament opener. That could spell an opportunity for Philadelphia Union defender Olwethu Makhanya to make his World Cup debut.

While a loss would not eliminate the South Africans, a win would be massively helpful to head coach Hugo Broos' side's chances of advancing before their final Group A match against Son Heung-Min and South Korea on June 24.
