MIAMI – Fans, celebrities and media flocked to Nu Stadium on Saturday to experience opening night at Inter Miami CF’s brand new, soccer-specific venue.

The Herons were up for the occasion, throwing an epic housewarming party capped by a 2-2 comeback draw against Austin FC.

Club legends Lionel Messi and Luis Suárez provided the goals that paced Miami to a dramatic start to life in their new home.

“Today, it’s clear that for the last 20 to 25 minutes, we took a lot of risks,” head coach Javier Mascherano told reporters post-match.

“But we’re at home. We’re MLS \[Cup\] champions, and we have to show it."

The Herons went all out to make Nu Stadium’s opening match one to remember, christening their state-of-the-art digs with fireworks and rousing pre-game speeches from co-owners Jorge Mas and David Beckham.

Famed Miami resident and four-time Grammy Award winner <a href="https://x.com/MLS/status/2040581146530943273" target="_blank">Marc Anthony</a> then belted out a stirring rendition of the national anthem, setting the stage for 90-plus minutes of non-stop chanting, cheering, and drumming from the sellout crowd of 26,700.

“It was beautiful. A sold-out crowd of people who made the effort to come and see us. And honestly, they cheered us from beginning to end,” said defender Maxi Falcón.

“For them to welcome us like that, with today’s spectacle, it was beautiful for us.”

That electric atmosphere helped the Herons recover quickly from Guilherme Biro’s sixth-minute opener for Austin, with Messi responding four minutes later to score Miami’s first-ever goal at their new home with a precise header.

A similar scenario played out in the second half, with fans spurring the Herons on as Suárez came off the bench to cancel out Jayden Nelson’s go-ahead strike by rifling home from close range in the 82nd minute.

Nu Stadium briefly erupted in pandemonium after Suárez appeared to score a last-gasp winner, only for the goal to be called off.

“On the field, you could definitely feel the atmosphere – especially when you score a goal to tie it up late,” said goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair.

“We pushed for the winner as well, and we felt that the crowd was really with us and pushing and kind of suffocating them."

While Saturday’s draw wasn’t the result they wanted, Inter Miami can take pride in boasting one of the best sporting venues in the world, according to MLS Commissioner Don Garber.

“They’ve done the unthinkable. The stadium is spectacular, it’s breathtaking,” Garber said. “Jose and Jorge \[Mas\] spoke to me this morning and they said, ‘I wish I could be with you when you walk in because it will take your breath away.’ And it did. It’s absolutely spectacular."

“It feels to me like a building that can rival any sports facility anywhere in the world. Not just soccer stadiums, but any sports building. I’m very proud of them.”

For Mas, the venue that anchors the broader Miami Freedom Park project could launch the club to transformative heights.

“Today we’re home,” Mas told the crowd during his pre-game speech. “I think this is a personification of what’s possible. I think it’s an amazing stadium, an amazing environment.

“And, listen, our goal is to lift trophies and win championships, and I think this will be a proper home to do that with and for our fans.”

Saturday’s match carried extra meaning for Miami beyond the outcome.

After six years playing 30 miles to the north in Fort Lauderdale, the Herons are now officially setting roots in Miami proper.

“\[For the\] fans to be able to have a permanent home where they know they’ll be here,” said St. Clair. “So I think for us, you just want to be able to reward the fans and give them wins and show them the effort. And be willing to do everything for the badge and for the club.”

Beckham, who helped plant the seeds of Inter Miami over a decade ago, was especially proud.

“To see this stadium come to life after years and years of trying to get this stadium up and running in Miami is something very special,” said the England and LA Galaxy legend.

“I came to America and MLS 20 years ago, and I made a lot of promises. And 13 years ago, I made a lot of promises again, announcing that I was coming to Miami.

“Today is just a dream come true for us.”

With Nu Stadium’s first match in the books, Inter Miami are looking to build on the legacy they’ve already created with MLS Cup 2025, 2024 Supporters’ Shield and Leagues Cup 2023 titles.

“I think the favorite part is still to come,” said Mas. "Everything to now has been frankly extremely stressful, the last few months. But I think the culmination of lifting an MLS Cup, us together here in December, would be a great shining cap off to an amazing year.”

Miami’s players, meanwhile, are more focused on the short-term.

“We’re a little bitter about not taking all three points because we know we’re a strong team,” said Falcón.

“ … We showed it last year, especially towards the end of the season. We have to get back to that, get our heads together and prepare well for our next game.”
