Seattle Sounders FC make their 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup debut with a visit to Cascadian Cup rivals Vancouver Whitecaps FC on Thursday night in their Round of 16 series opener.

USA: FS2, TUDN

Canada: OneSoccer

Thursday, March 12 | 10 pm ET/7 pm PT

BC Place | Vancouver, British Colombia

Leg 2 will be played at ONE Spokane Stadium on March 18, determining who reaches the quarterfinals in April. The aggregate winner will face the winner of the series between FC Cincinnati and Tigres UANL (Mexico).

Nine MLS clubs are competing in the prestigious continental tournament, which grants a spot in the 2029 FIFA Club World Cup and the 2026 FIFA Intercontinental Cup. The single-match CCC final will be held on May 30.

Round One: 2-0 aggregate vs. CS Cartaginés (Costa Rica)

Vancouver have become Concacaf Champions Cup regulars, courtesy of four straight Canadian Championship titles.

They nearly went the distance in 2025, too, before losing to LIGA MX's Cruz Azul in the CCC title match.

This year, their run began with a 2-0 aggregate victory over Costa Rican side CS Cartaginés in Round One. After being held scoreless in Leg 1, the Whitecaps got goals from Kenji Cabrera and Sebastian Berhalter in Leg 2.

Will Thomas Müller & Co. keep the dream alive, especially at home?

Round One: Bye

The only MLS team to ever be crowned Concacaf Champions Cup winners courtesy of their historic 2022 triumph over Pumas UNAM, Seattle earned a bye in Round One of this season's tournament as 2025 Leagues Cup champions.

Despite battling a host of injuries across their attacking contingent, Seattle have started with a 2W-1L-0D record in league play.

In large part, that is due to supersub performances from Paul Rothrock, who produced 1g/1a in a 2-0 opening weekend win against the Colorado Rapids, and Kalani Kossa-Rienzi, who netted the winning goal last Saturday in a 1-0 victory over St. Louis CITY SC.

Can Sounders keep the momentum going in a visit to Vancouver for their biggest test of 2026 thus far?
