Matchday 8 is upon us, highlighted by high-profile clashes in both conferences.

Let's look at the biggest games on deck this weekend.

WHEN: Saturday, 4:30 pm ET

WATCH: <a href="https://soc.cr/4mzFKEn" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

The Colorado Rapids are moving to Empower Field at Mile High, where 70,000-plus fans are expected for a high-profile, high-powered showdown with Lionel Messi and Inter Miami CF.

At home this season, the Rapids have erupted for 12 goals in three wins, including a 6-2 rout of Houston Dynamo FC last Saturday. That left Colorado tied for the league lead in goals scored (19), with a dynamic attack led by Rafael Navarro, Paxten Aaronson and Darren Yapi.

As they race toward the Western Conference summit, can head coach Matt Wells' team keep the good times rolling in front of a potential record home crowd?

After winning MLS Cup 2025 presented by Audi, Inter Miami (3W-1L-3D) have been somewhat slow out of the gate in 2026. The Herons were knocked out of the Concacaf Champions Cup by Nashville SC last month and have been held to back-to-back 2-2 draws to open Nu Stadium.

Then on Tuesday, Miami shocked the MLS world when the club announced that head coach Javier Mascherano had departed the club for personal reasons.

Led by interim coach Guillermo Hoyos, the Herons hope to return to winning ways. Hoyos shares a longstanding relationship with Messi, the two-time reigning Landon Donovan MLS MVP who has five goals in six starts this year.

WHEN: Saturday, 7:30 pm ET

WATCH: <a href="https://soc.cr/4csxyku" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

FC Cincinnati hope a return to TQL Stadium will provide the spark following a 1-1 draw at Toronto FC and a 4-2 defeat at Red Bull New York.

They're also looking to get star midfielder Evander going, with the Brazilian maestro limited to one assist through 389 minutes thus far. Leading scorer Kévin Denkey will miss the match due to a red-card suspension.

Will this weekend's Walmart Saturday Showdown be the moment for Evander to break his duck and lead Cincy to a much-needed three points?

Meanwhile, Chicago Fire FC are trying to make it four straight wins. Gregg Berhalter's side has secured back-to-back 1-0 wins over Nashville SC and Atlanta United following a 2-1 victory over the Philadelphia Union.

USMNT goalkeeper Chris Brady has been terrific for Chicago with four clean sheets, and South African center back Mbekezeli Mbokazi has also been instrumental in the defensive turnaround. Both are looking to secure spots at the 2026 FIFA World Cup this summer.

Will striker Hugo Cuypers return to the lineup? He's missed out recently due to concussion symptoms.

WHEN: Sunday, 7 pm ET

WATCH: <a href="https://soc.cr/4ccwEKf" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

A California clash and a top-of-the-table showdown between two in-form teams – does it get any better than this for Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire?

There's been no slowing down LAFC despite balancing multiple competitions. Marc Dos Santos' side set an MLS shutout record to start a season before finally conceding in their first loss of the year, a 2-1 defeat at the Portland Timbers last weekend.

LAFC are powered by Son Heung-Min, Denis Bouanga and David Martínez up front, while Hugo Lloris has been rock-solid in goal. Never was that more evident than their ouster of LIGA MX powerhouse Cruz Azul in the CCC quarterfinals midweek.

As LAFC did with Son last summer, San Jose made a splash in the transfer market by landing German star Timo Werner ahead of the season.

Werner has been limited to just 200 minutes in four appearances due to injury, but that hasn't stopped the Earthquakes from transforming into one of the league's best sides so far this year. The Quakes are currently tied atop the Supporters' Shield standings with Vancouver Whitecaps FC on 18 points.

In his absence, San Jose have looked to homegrown midfielder Niko Tsakiris and striker Preston Judd to carry the attacking load. San Jose head coach Bruce Arena said Werner should be back and available for selection this weekend, adding another layer to this mouthwatering clash.
