INGLEWOOD, Calif. – World, meet the new New Zealand.

Making their first FIFA World Cup appearance in 16 long years, the Kiwis showed both guts and skill in their opening match of the tournament Monday evening, swapping haymakers with Iran in a pulsating 2-2 draw that wowed a feverishly emotional crowd of 70,108 and turned heads around the globe.

With Minnesota United veteran Michael Boxall and Portland Timbers starlet Finn Surman anchoring the ‘All Whites’ defense, the Oceania representatives surprised everyone with their slick passing and comfort on the ball, making light of the 65 places between them and Team Melli in the latest FIFA World Ranking.

“As a team, we've spoken about how we wanted to change how we play a little bit the last three, four years, and I think that was an expansive display of that tonight,” Boxall told MLSsoccer.com in the mixed zone postgame.

“Although looking back at it, probably a few things we could do to tighten things up. I think we were probably a little bit more vulnerable than we would have liked, but around that, they’re a quality team.”

The disappointment at allowing Iran to equalize twice was understandable: On their third trip to this tournament, the Kiwis remain in pursuit of their first-ever World Cup victory. Yet it also speaks volumes about the evolution of a program known for years as organized and spirited, yet fundamentally limited against top opposition.

“We showed the world who we are and who our players are,” said manager Darren Bazeley, a former Colorado Rapids assistant coach who has spent much of the past two decades at various levels of the New Zealand national teams system. “I think that may be our best performance ever, or since I've been involved with the All Whites, which is a long time.”

Southern California is home to the world’s largest population of Iranians outside of Tehran, fueling a markedly pro-Team Melli crowd buzzing with particular intensity in light of recent geopolitical events. Yet the Kiwis won the possession battle and controlled long periods of the match, knitting together two pretty goals laid on by Nottingham Forest star Chris Wood and finished by Scotland-based winger Elijah Just.

Despite their uniquely difficult buildup to the tournament – Iran had to relocate their base camp from Arizona to Tijuana, Mexico due to visa issues, and were only permitted to spend the night before this match on US soil, with many of their support staff not allowed to enter the United States – Team Melli were dogged, digging out two big chances in fleeting moments and converting both.

“When you're leading twice in a game, you come away with that ‘what if?’” said Bazeley, “and we're probably as close as we'll ever be to winning a game at a World Cup. We couldn't quite do that today, but we're in the World Cup. We didn't lose. Stayed in the game, scored goals and created chances. So, for us, it was a really strong performance I'm really proud of.

“I thought the two center backs were outstanding throughout the game. And they're in the dressing room there hurting that one moment, five seconds of football, has hurt them.”

One of his side's top performers, Surman tabbed 76 touches, completed 94 percent of his 54 passes, including one chance created, and made a whopping 16 defensive contributions, winning all of his duels and committing not a single foul.

“The funny thing about that is we still think we can be better. We know we can be better,” Surman said afterwards. “There's a lot of positives from today's performance, and I think that it's potentially changed people's view on us, and what they expect from us.

“I still think that there's things we need to improve, and of course we're going to look at that sort of stuff, and take those into the next game, but I do think that overall we can be positive about this performance, and come away knowing that we've got a point from a World Cup game.”

It was a dream performance for a dreamed-of occasion.

“When you're in the game, you can't really think too much about what's going on, on the occasion, and then you've got to stay focused,” Surman said afterwards. “Though when we're singing the national anthem out there, I think that was a moment where I was able to kind of take it all in, and take the moment and realize what an awesome occasion, what a culmination of my life events has brought me to here.

“That was pretty special.”

Timbers fans watched on from the Rose City in pride, some even lamenting on social media that Surman’s display was so excellent that big clubs overseas will surely come knocking, and eventually spirit away their side’s rock in defense.

Informed of those posts, Surman shook his head.

“I love being in Portland, mate. Portland showed me so much love, and it's something that I truly appreciate,” he said. “They support me so well, and I really feel valued at that club. The fans really make me feel valued, so I love playing for them, representing them at things like this, and yeah, they make me super proud.

“It's awesome; you know, I got a few photos sent to me of people in Portland supporting, and it means so much to me.”

The All Whites’ Mundial road now takes them to British Columbia, where they'll face Egypt on Sunday, then Belgium on June 26 at the home of Vancouver Whitecaps FC.
