Cavan Sullivan and the Philadelphia Union rebounded from their Leagues Cup 2026 opening loss to Cruz Azul, posting a convincing 3-1 win over Club Necaxa at Subaru Park on Sunday night.

It was a statement performance for the 16-year-old phenom, who pulled all the strings for the Union while recording 1g/1a.

The stellar effort provided yet another glimpse at Sullivan's immense potential, not only for the Union, but perhaps for the US men's national team down the road.

Since Ryan Richter took over as interim manager, Philly have been flying, posting a 4W-1L-0D record across all competitions.

And it's hard to argue that Sullivan hasn't been a catalyst.

The US youth international has taken on a larger role under Richter, seeing significantly more playing time than he did under former manager Bradley Carnell, and has developed into a key piece of the Union's plans.

On the night, Sullivan featured for 60 minutes and made his presence known from the opening whistle. His first contribution came in the third minute, when he assisted Nathan Harriel on Philadelphia’s opening tally.

The homegrown star capped his night with his fourth career Union goal in the 53rd minute, finishing a cross from Indiana Vassilev after some tidy touches in the box.

“He has been dangerous every game and he has been in positions where he is getting his opportunities… but it was really important for him today to get that goal and I was most proud about the type of goal that it was,” Richter said postgame.

“It wasn’t the special one where you beat three players and curl the ball into the top corner. It was to get to the right spot at the right time and put the ball in the back of the net. He has the special goal in him, but this is how he is going to score a lot of goals at this level.”

While his performance against Necaxa was a standout moment, it is merely the latest chapter in a sustained period of development. Sullivan’s growth has been on full display since the FIFA World Cup break.

Over the past two months, that development has become increasingly difficult to ignore, as the young star has continued to turn in positive performances, showcasing his ability to influence games.

It begs the question: Has Sullivan done enough to earn a USMNT call-up from Mauricio Pochettino in the upcoming international window?

Richter seems fairly positive about the possibility, though he was quick to make it clear that the decision is not his to make.

“That’s not my job, to pick that team," Richter countered. "But I think that he is getting better every game and challenging him to do the good things he is doing and then, on top of that, be productive with goals and assists… this is a big step for him.

"Whatever comes in the next window, or the next one after that, that part is the job of U.S. Soccer, and our job is to keep pushing Cavan to raise his level so that he is considered for that.”

Sullivan and Philadelphia will conclude Phase One play in Leagues Cup 2026 when they host Santos Laguna on Thursday (7 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/philadelphia-union-vs-club-santos-laguna/umc.cse.6521gkbjmgosshxzkaq3iebox" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

That match represents yet another opportunity for the rising star to not only strengthen his case as one of the sport's top young talents, but also keep himself on Pochettino's radar as the 2030 World Cup cycle kicks off this fall.

"I'm really happy for him, proud of him," added Richter. "Hopefully he takes confidence from it."
