In the blink of an eye, Vancouver Whitecaps FC are back atop the Western Conference.

After relinquishing their first-place position to Houston Dynamo FC midweek in a 1-0 defeat, the 'Caps responded emphatically, thrashing FC Dallas 5-0 at BC Place on Saturday night to reclaim the West's top spot.

"We had the same amount of shots this game that we had last \[game vs. Houston\]," pointed out head coach Jesper Sørensen. "This time we hit the target \[nine\] times instead of one, which is a good start, and then you give yourself better opportunities to score goals. So obviously it was great."

Two of those shots on target came from Whitecaps all-time leading goalscorer Brian White, who wasted no time netting a first-half brace on his return from a brief hamstring injury.

The 30-year-old American scored his first goal since the FIFA World Cup break, combining with fellow goalscorer Édier Ocampo (1g/1a) to double Vancouver's lead. White then completed his brace in the 37th minute with a powerful first-time finish following a corner kick.

"I think they were stuff we work on in training in terms of ... I just was able to find a bit of space, and the ball came to me and was able to finish it off," said White postgame. "Good overall performance from the boys and good to get some goals in the back of the net."

White's resurgence was a welcome sight for his manager, who couldn't resist taking a bit of credit for selecting the striker in his starting XI.

"He can also do it because he's chosen, right?" joked Sørensen. "So that's also a thing, but of course, he's a good striker and he's also chosen because of these qualities. So I think that's definitely Brian.

"We've talked about him many times here and of course he's a great player for us. He's been out... so it was great that Brian could step up. I think that he played very well and blended in very well with the guys and you couldn't see that he'd been out for a while here."

Saturday's victory vaulted Vancouver above Houston for first place in the West and past Inter Miami CF into second in the Supporters' Shield race.

Still, the reigning Western Conference champions know they must keep their focus on themselves.

"We can't be too concerned with what other teams are doing in the table," said White. "We have to focus on our performances and getting wins, whether it's here at home or on the road, and just looking forward to building off of this and going to Kansas City next weekend."

Coming off their first MLS victory at BC Place since April, the conference leaders will now aim to keep the momentum going when they visit last-place Sporting Kansas City next Saturday (8:30 pm ET | Apple TV).

"When you want to play offensive and attacking football-minded, then it's way easier when you're in front in the game and playing on the front foot. Today, they look to be gaining a lot more freedom from being in front of the game and scoring a couple of goals. And of course, that's always great," said Sørensen of his team's growing conviction.

"I hope that that's something that we can carry on. Every game is different, so it's gonna be a different thing next time, but I think the team in general is confident. I think when we've looked at the games, we have been playing well. It's not been easy for us scoring, but today we hit a couple, and that was great. We, of course, have to carry that confidence into the next games as well."
