TRANSFER TRACKER STATUS: Extension

Real Salt Lake have signed striker Sergi Solans to a contract extension, the club announced Monday.

The 23-year-old Spaniard's new deal lasts through the 2029-30 season with an option for 2030-31.

Originally signing with the club in January, Solans has enjoyed a breakout rookie season with RSL. He's scored a team-best 11 goals and provided four assists in 22 appearances across all competitions.

“Sergi has proven his quality and commitment from day one, and his on-field production speaks for itself,” said chief soccer officer Kurt Schmid. “Rewarding him with this new contract was an easy decision. He’s a key part of our vision to bring trophies to Salt Lake now and in the years ahead.”

A product of Spanish side Girona FC, Solans first arrived in the United States as a collegiate player with Oregon State before being selected by RSL with the 30th pick in the 2025 MLS SuperDraft.

He then returned to college, transferring to UCLA, where he helped the Bruins win the 2025 Big Ten championship while being named the 2025 Big Ten Tournament Most Outstanding Player.

“I’m quite grateful to the club to extend this contract. I am also very thankful to the coaches for their trust and to the fans for their support from my first day in Utah. My job is not just scoring goals. I want fans to engage with the team and with me, showing their support for the team," said Solans. “My time in Utah has been very good so far. It is such an amazing place to live. I tell everyone that the people in this state are so nice, the club is unbelievable, everyone is so willing to help, and we should all be very proud of that.

“I’m grateful because the coaches trust me, but every day it’s my job to keep proving myself, to keep raising the level, to improve for the future. One of the attributes of my success so far comes from working hard every day, not thinking too far ahead, having my feet on the ground, seizing the opportunity on the weekend, and enjoying that opportunity – soccer is hard!”

RSL are currently eighth in the Western Conference (28 points) as they prepare for a Leagues Cup 2026 quarterfinal clash with Club León on Tuesday night (10:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/club-leon-vs-real-salt-lake/umc.cse.364q4wgfkgsy3mogfq59wkx7e?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.7000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

READ MORE: MLS Transfer Tracker
