Six MLS teams booked their spot in the 2026 US Open Cup quarterfinals on Wednesday evening.

The Colorado Rapids, Columbus Crew, Houston Dynamo FC, New York City FC, Orlando City and St. Louis CITY SC all won their Round-of-16 matches.

They join Tuesday winners Atlanta United and the San Jose Earthquakes in the next round of the historic tournament, which awards a 2027 <a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/concacaf-champions-league/" target="_blank">Concacaf Champions Cup</a> spot, prize money and silverware.

Maxi Moralez produced a hat trick of assists to lift NYCFC over Red Bull New York, 3-1, at Sports Illustrated Stadium.

It was the first time the Cityzens defeated their Hudson River Derby rivals in a knockout competition, and they have a club legend to thank for it.

Moralez served up a trio of corner kicks that Kai Trewin, Raul Gustavo and Thiago Martins headed home. Red-hot Julian Hall scored RBNY's lone goal early in the first half.

Goals

9' - NYC - Kai Trewin | WATCH

14' - RBNY - Julian Hall | WATCH

39' - NYC - Raul Gustavo | WATCH

57' - NYC - Thiago Martins | WATCH

Lineups

Hugo Picard netted a brace in the Columbus Crew's 4-1 win over USL League One side One Knoxville SC at ScottsMiracle-Gro Field.

Picard, who also scored twice during a 3-0 win over the Richmond Kickers in the previous round, put the Crew in front 2-1 at the break.

Dániel Gazdag and Chase Adams scored five minutes apart in the second half to seal the result.

Goals

10' - CLB - Hugo Picard | WATCH

11' - KNX - Braudilio Rodrigues | WATCH

23' - CLB - Hugo Picard | WATCH

72' - CLB - Dániel Gazdag | WATCH

77' - CLB - Chase Adams | WATCH

Lineups

Zakaria Taifi's stoppage-time goal secured a 4-3 comeback win for Orlando City over Eastern Conference foe New England Revolution at Centreville Bank Stadium.

Trailing 3-2 with 20 minutes remaining, Justin Ellis leveled for the visitors before Taifi, a second-half sub, crashed the net to connect with Tyrese Spicer's cross and score the dramatic winner.

The Lions rallied from a goal down three times to book their spot in the quarterfinals.

Goals

21' - NE - Malcolm Fry | WATCH

31' - ORL - Iago Teodoro | WATCH

37' - NE - Andrew Farrell | WATCH

39' - ORL - Griffin Dorsey | WATCH

58' - NE - Marcos Zambrano | WATCH

70' - ORL - Justin Ellis | WATCH

90+2' - ORL - Zakaria Taifi | WATCH

Lineups

Goals by Tomas Totland and Eduard Löwen inside the final 20 minutes lifted St. Louis CITY to a 2-1 win over Chicago Fire FC at SeatGeek Stadium.

Totland canceled out Anton Salétros' opening goal for the hosts in the 63rd minute with a 71st-minute equalizer. Then, Löwen scored the emotional winner at the back post seven minutes later.

The German midfielder took a leave of absence from St. Louis earlier this season after his wife passed away due to cancer.

Goals

63' - CHI - Anton Salétros | WATCH

71' - STL - Tomas Totland | WATCH

78' - STL - Eduard Löwen | WATCH

Lineups

Moments away from being eliminated, Houston Dynamo FC equalized shortly before full time and scored an extra-time winner in a 2-1 victory against Louisville City FC at Shell Energy Stadium.

Ray Serrano opened the scoring for the USL Championship side in the 67th minute, and Erik Sviatchenko leveled on a diving header inside the six-yard box.

Dynamo striker Ezequiel Ponce won the game in the 101st minute, turning from just inside the 18-yard box to fire home a low strike.

Goals

67' - FCL - Ray Serrano | WATCH

89' - HOU - Erik Sviatchenko | WATCH

101' - HOU - Ezequiel Ponce | WATCH

Lineups

The Colorado derby went to the Colorado Rapids, who needed a penalty-kick shootout to oust USL Championship side Colorado Springs Switchbacks at Dick's Sporting Goods Park.

The Rapids thought they had the extra-time winner on a 114th-minute goal by Georgi Minoungou, but that was canceled out by Khori Bennett's penalty in the final seconds of extra-time, and the 2-2 draw would be decided on penalties.

After Nico Hansen made his second save in the shootout, Keegan Rosenberry buried the decisive spot kick to secure the Rapids' quarterfinal spot.

Goals

25' - COL - Alexis Manyoma | WATCH

34' - CSS - Brennan Creek | WATCH

114' - COL - Georgi Minoungou | WATCH

120' - CSS - Khori Bennett (PK) | WATCH

Lineups
