LAFC welcome LIGA MX giants Toluca on Saturday for a high-stakes Leagues Cup Phase One showdown.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4fy5LSL" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

FS1, Univision

<a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/leagues-cup/2026/matches/tolvslafc-08-08-2026/" target="_blank">Saturday, Aug. 8</a> | 11:10 pm ET/8:10 pm PT

BMO Stadium | Los Angeles, California

In Phase One, each team plays three matches against opponents from the opposite league. The top four clubs from each league-specific table advance to the quarterfinals.

The tournament champion will be crowned on Sept. 6. Additionally, the top three finishers qualify for the 2027 Concacaf Champions Cup.

Leagues Cup tickets

Standings

3rd in LIGA MX Leagues Cup table

3 points (1W-0L-0D)

Last match

Toluca delivered a statement performance on Wednesday, racking up 18 shots on goal en route to a dominant 3-0 win over defending champions Seattle Sounders FC.

Jesús Gallardo, Helinho and Federico Viñas scored for Los Diablos Rojos at Estadio Nemesio Díez, the site of the first-ever Leagues Cup game played in Mexico.

Players to watch

Alexis Vega: Toluca's main creative force, Vega represented Mexico at the 2026 FIFA World Cup on home soil.

Jesús Gallardo: A fellow 2026 World Cup veteran with El Tri, Gallardo scored three minutes into Toluca's opening victory over Seattle.

Helinho: The club-record signing also found the back of the net against Seattle, as he picks up the goal-scoring slack amid star striker Paulinho's injury.

Federico Pereira: The hard-nosed Uruguayan center back helped shut down Seattle en route to a clean sheet debut for Los Diablos Rojos.

Need to know

As the No. 1-ranked LIGA MX side in Leagues Cup, Toluca wasted little time in flaunting their bona fides against the Sounders.

Los Diablos Rojos have won virtually every trophy on offer under head coach Antonio Mohamed, capturing two LIGA MX titles, the Campeón de Campeones, Campeones Cup and, most recently, the 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup.

Is a Leagues Cup title next? A win on Saturday would all but secure passage to the quarterfinals.

Standings

11th in MLS Leagues Cup table

2 points (0W-0L-1D)

Last match

LAFC snatched two points in their tournament opener, prevailing 5-4 over Chivas de Guadalajara in penalty kicks after playing to a 1-1 draw.

Denis Bouanga struck first for the Black & Gold for his joint all-time best 14th career Leagues Cup goal, level with Inter Miami CF superstar Lionel Messi.

Roberto Alvarado responded for Chivas to force PKs. LAFC were more efficient from the spot, however, with 17-year-old homegrown Jude Terry converting the decisive PK.

Players to watch

Son Heung-Min: The South Korean legend highlights LAFC's star-studded offense after captaining his country at the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Denis Bouanga: The Black & Gold's all-time leading scorer also tops Leagues Cup's goalscoring charts.

David Martínez: The third piece of LAFC's three-headed attacking monster, Martínez is in the midst of a career-best 6g/2a MLS season.

Ryan Hollingshead: The veteran defender remains a vital piece of the Black & Gold backline five years into his LAFC career.

Need to know

Two years after reaching the Leagues Cup 2024 final, LAFC are eyeing another deep tournament run.

Boasting arguably the continent's most fearsome attacking duo in Son and Bouanga, the Black & Gold will need their big names to deliver against a Toluca side that's also among the competition's favorites.

A win is practically a must for LAFC, who enter the second of three Phase One games with two points. Only the top four teams per league table (MLS & LIGA MX) advance to the quarterfinals.
