The MLS Secondary Transfer Window is over, and Tom Bogert is officially allowed to sleep for the first time in a month.

Now that the dust is starting to clear from one of the most active stretches in recent memory, we wanted to make sure you're clued in on the league’s most important newcomers as we head into the home stretch of the 2026 regular season.

Here are the 11 biggest signings to know.

The waiting game for Griezmann ended in July and, so far, a little patience has been very much worth it for Orlando City. That’s no surprise, of course, given the World Cup winner's incredible career at Atlético Madrid.

But it's still worth pointing out that, in seven MLS starts, the Frenchman has scored four times and delivered three assists. Orlando have earned 11 points over that stretch and are above the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs line. Griezmann might just be able to keep them there (if the Orlando defense allows him to).

Fan sentiment was mixed as Lewandowski formally joined the Chicago Fire this summer. Not because people were concerned about the Polish icon's ability to score, but because his predecessor, Hugo Cuypers, led the league in goals before his departure.

Lewandowski has quickly put most of those concerns to rest.

So far, the former Bayern Munich and FC Barcelona striker has scored four times in 456 minutes. That’s not quite the 1.18 goals per 90 minutes that Cuypers averaged over 11 starts, but 0.79 goals per 90 minutes as you get acclimated to a new team and league on the fly is impressive.

Fresh off a strong season for Manchester United, Brazil national team standout Casemiro arrived at Inter Miami this summer. He’s been exactly the kind of player you’d expect; his quality on the ball is immediately apparent, and he makes Miami even more terrifying in attack.

That said, there are some concerns about the move’s impact on Miami defensively. Since arriving in late July, the Herons’ record with Casemiro starting is 3W-4L-2D across all competitions. They’ve allowed 18 goals over those nine matches.

Will new Miami head coach Kily González find the right tactical balance so Casemiro can thrive?

Look at that hang time 😮Casemiro scores his first goal for @InterMiamiCF! 🔥 pic.twitter.com/zUtHOS6XfH

Atlanta United are trying again with a big-money DP striker. After Emmanuel Latte Lath’s record-breaking transfer and lackluster (to date) tenure, the Five Stripes reportedly spent around $18 million to bring in a much different profile of No. 9.

Embolo is a physically imposing player who’s built more for holding up the ball and finding ultra-high-quality chances in the box. On paper, he’s a much more effective player in the build-up and when Atlanta possess the ball in the final third.

Now, Atlanta just have to consistently give him opportunities to get on the end of chances. Things have been better for the Five Stripes lately, but there are still notable areas of improvement for them when they’re on the ball.

Hitting all the right notes 🎼 pic.twitter.com/3gibgYGG2h

Sporting Kansas City shattered their club record fee for Luiz, spending a reported $18 million plus add-ons to acquire the Brazilian winger from Greek Super League powerhouse Olympiacos.

In the brief glimpse we got of him last weekend, you can see he has the potential to live up to that valuation. Luiz has speed to spare and looked confident on the ball. The very small sample was a positive one.

Now, Sporting KC didn't add a second DP this window. And who they acquire to maximize Luiz's skill set will be of paramount importance.

A debut in Sporting Blue. Inside André Luiz's first appearance 🎬 pic.twitter.com/yJ4zz7FxfW

Saint-Maximin put on a show in Atlanta last weekend. He repeatedly torched defenders with his pace and then, most importantly, consistently made the right decision after beating those defenders (he finished with two assists).

If Saint-Maximin can consistently put together those kinds of performances, Charlotte are closer to a trophy than they’ve ever been in their brief history.

In just his second start, the former Newcastle United winger looked like a star. Buy some stock while you can.

Maxi ➡️ Pep ➡️ IdanFIRE US UP, LADS! pic.twitter.com/RoMQWSYCFE

The Crew reportedly spent about $6 million to bring in Méndez from LaLiga's Real Sociedad, and the Spaniard is one piece of Columbus’ refresh at the top of the roster.

They've moved on from former DP attackers Diego Rossi and Dániel Gazdag, and transferred out Max Arfsten. Now, Méndez and former New York City FC star Santi Rodríguez are set to try and bring the Crew back to their Wilfried Nancy-era best. When he's back healthy, striker Wessam Abou Ali helps form a special trio.

So far, Méndez has shown flashes of star power, even as Columbus have sputtered over the last few weeks. He has two goals and an assist in three MLS starts.

Brais Méndez free kick in his debut! 💥The former Real Sociedad midfielder equalizes it for @ColumbusCrew against Miami. pic.twitter.com/z0GEuZqM1R

The Galaxy are banking on Roberto, a former FC Barcelona regular, to solidify things in midfield. After more than a decade with Barça, he’s definitely got the pedigree and on-ball ability to do it. As a bonus: The fact that he’s not on a DP deal lessens any concerns about putting too much of the roster’s resources on a 34-year-old.

LA will hope both Roberto and new DP winger Chucky Lozano perform at a high level as they try to climb back above the playoff line from 13th place.

Welcome to Los Ángeles, @SergiRoberto10 💫 pic.twitter.com/CkN6I6YOLY

The Colorado Rapids didn’t waste time reinvesting the reported $17 million windfall they received from Lucas Herrington’s transfer to Hull City and striker Rafael Navarro's $12 million trade to St. Louis CITY SC, completely revamping their attack this summer.

That includes spending a reported club-record $10.7 million to bring in winger Morgan Whittaker from Middlesbrough FC. He tallied 14g/7a in the English Championship last year and should instantly elevate their attack.

It's not just Whittaker, though. Colorado also brought in Ghanaian winger Ibrahim Sadiq and Israel international forward Sayed Abu Farkhi. That new trio will need to hit the ground running as Colorado look to make noise in the playoffs.

Morgan Whittaker is a Burgundy Boy. pic.twitter.com/MDDS2zOlNo

Harrison made the leap from NYCFC to the Premier League almost a decade ago. In that time, he became a regular for both Leeds United and Everton. Now, he’s back in MLS as an attacker for one of the Eastern Conference’s best teams.

The New England Revolution are currently fourth in the East with 12 games to go. Harrison adds another match-winning piece to an attack that has oftentimes had to rely on Carles Gil saving the day a little too much. In just four starts, Harrison has already delivered six assists.

With Gil, Harrison and goalkeeper Matt Turner, New England can, in theory, have three high-level players who can earn you three points on any given day. That’s tough for any opponent to handle.

The first to 5️⃣Jack Harrison has become the fastest player in Revolution history to register five assists for the club, doing so in just four games to surpass Revs legend Steve Ralston (7 games). pic.twitter.com/wOqwMTONs7

Achouri has been receiving positive reviews since making his debut in mid-August. It’s a small sample, but the Tunisian international and 2026 World Cup alum scored in each of his two starts.

The former FC Copenhagen player is essentially the Chucky Lozano replacement for a San Diego team that’s needed one since Lozano effectively left the squad at the end of last year. With Achouri providing another attacking threat opposite fellow DP winger Anders Dreyer, San Diego’s ceiling and floor are much higher than they were during their rough start to the season.

SDFC are already back above the playoff line and just six points behind third-place LAFC. There’s still plenty of time to meet the lofty expectations they set last season. If Achouri continues to live up to his billing, there’s a decent chance they get there.

That Anders Dreyer ➡️ Elias Achouri connection is DIFFERENT 😤 pic.twitter.com/tDWEjBh0eM
