Antoine Greizmann endeared himself to the Orlando City faithful on Saturday, leading the Lions' comeback win to earn MLS Player of the Matchday presented by Michelob ULTRA honors for Matchday 22.

Griezmann recorded his first career MLS brace, scoring both goals for Orlando in their 2-1 victory over Real Salt Lake.

The legendary French attacker has now played in six regular-season matches since joining Orlando from Spanish powerhouse Atlético Madrid, playing all 540 minutes and contributing 3g/2a.

Across his six starts, Orlando have produced a 3W-2L-1D record with all six games coming against current Audi MLS Cup Playoffs teams. Before Griezmann's arrival, Orlando earned 14 points and sat outside the playoff spots (12th in Eastern Conference).

Following Saturday’s victory, the Lions moved into the playoff picture for the first time this season, jumping to ninth place in the East with 24 points.

Griezmann is the second Orlando player to be named Player of the Matchday this season, joining Martín Ojeda (Matchday 11).

He's also the eighth different former FIFA World Cup winner to be named Player of the Matchday, joining Lionel Messi (14), Thierry Henry (six), David Villa (four), Thiago Almada (three), Youri Djorkaeff (two), Kaká (one), and Thomas Müller (one).

Griezmann and Orlando look to continue their strong form when they travel to face Minnesota United FC on Saturday, August 29 at Allianz Field (8:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/minnesota-united-vs-orlando-city/umc.cse.2gxle7i8w5y7jxphjncqe2gae?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.4000%2Ctvs.sbd.7000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

The MLS Player of the Matchday presented by Michelob ULTRA is selected each matchday of the regular season through both media and fan voting in a process conducted by MLS Communications. A panel of journalists from the North American Soccer Reporters (NASR) comprises 75 percent of the vote, while an Instagram fan vote represents the remaining 25 percent of voting. NASR consists of members of print, television, radio and online media.
