In need of a jolt, Seattle Sounders FC hope they've found one in Dejan Joveljić.

Seattle's blockbuster trade for the Serbian international striker comes amid a challenging summer where the perennial trophy contenders have endured an eight-game losing streak, a rash of injuries, a tumble down the Western Conference table and the second-fewest goals scored in MLS (22).

Introduced to local media after being acquired from Sporting Kansas City this week, Joveljić made clear he understands the circumstances and expectations.

"I'm here to bring goals and to help win the games," said Joveljić, who was flanked by head coach Brian Schmetzer and general manager Craig Waibel. "I'm the striker who works hard, who is helping the team in every possible way.

"I can score with left, right, head – it doesn't matter. If Seattle is playing the way they played the last couple of years, I'm gonna score a lot of goals, I'm sure, and I'm ready for it. "

The optimism surrounding Joveljić's arrival, and his status as a Designated Player, largely stems from his MLS track record.

The 27-year-old has been one of the league's most reliable goalscorers over five seasons, first with the LA Galaxy and then with Sporting KC.

That run includes a starring role in LA's 2024 MLS Cup title and an 18-goal campaign with Sporting KC in 2025. For his career, the striker has 60 MLS goals and seven more in the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs, pedigree that prompted a cash-for-player trade worth $6 million.

"What I wanted, and what we delivered on, was getting what we feel is a really, really top, top, top striker," Waibel said. "He knows our league, he fits our culture, and I think this is going to pay dividends, hopefully, for the Seattle Sounders and give \[Joveljić\] a home for many years."

Seattle have seen firsthand Joveljić's ability to deliver on the biggest stage. During the Galaxy's 2024 MLS Cup-winning run, he scored the 85th-minute winner at Dignity Health Sports Park to eliminate the Sounders in the Western Conference Final.

Now tasked with helping his former postseason adversaries get their season back on track, Joveljić hopes his next big-game memory comes in Rave Green.

"It was an amazing night for LA Galaxy. Unfortunately for Seattle, that night was not so great," Joveljić said. "But I'll give my best to get revenge on the other teams in MLS Conference Final and, after that, one extra game."

Joveljić won't have to wait long for his first chance to make an impact.

Schmetzer confirmed the new arrival will feature in Saturday's home fixture vs. Robert Lewandowski and Chicago Fire FC, as Seattle look to halt their slide and begin climbing back up the standings (4:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/seattle-sounders-fc-vs-chicago-fire-fc/umc.cse.4woli67059x5kllosld5hc7nx?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.4000%2Ctvs.sbd.7000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

"Whenever you sign a big player, I think there's a lot of excitement," Schmetzer said. "Training today was good. There's a little bit better buzz; energy was good, so that'll help us as well… Although the team has continued to fight even in this losing stretch, the team still has a heartbeat. They're still fighting for everything."

For Joveljić, the objective is to help turn that fight into results.

"I'll give my best to be the example on the field and off the field and to help the young guys as well, to help everyone," Joveljić said. "And the main thing is to win. We are here on the same page. And I'm gonna score a lot of goals. I'm ready for it."
