Once again, FC Cincinnati left it late to find a winner. And once again, it was Evander who found the crucial goal.

The Brazilian magician bagged his 12th goal of the season in the 91st minute against New York City FC, a thunderous spinning strike from the edge of the box, perfectly finding the bottom corner past a frozen Matt Freese to secure a 2-1 home victory.

“Certainly, the result was good... especially at the end there, the difference of how you feel is a couple saves on one end and Evander being Evander on the other," head coach Pat Noonan said postgame.

"So, still pleased with guys finding a way to get three points."

Heading into the match, Cincinnati found themselves just a point ahead of NYCFC in the Eastern Conference table. The win pushes them into fifth place, three points shy of the fourth-place spot that gives homefield advantage in the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs.

While it's early to be caught up in table watching, the importance of the result wasn't lost on Noonan.

"This is the first time before a game we've talked about where we were at," he said. "There's still so much to play for everybody, but they were a point behind us going into the game, and I want to recognize the importance of getting three points at home.

"... This was an important three points in this particular game... so that part, I think, is a huge win for us."

The win also continues an unbelievable run of form for Evander. In his last 16 matches in all competitions, he's found the net 14 times.

In league play, the Brazilian superstar has increased his tally to an astonishing – and MLS-high – 23 goal contributions this year (12g/11a).

The two-time MLS Best XI inclusion has been the heart of Cincinnati's attack since his trade from the Portland Timbers ahead of the 2025 season, logging 30g/26a in MLS play for the Blue & Orange.

The top of the Eastern Conference table is incredibly crowded. But don't be surprised to see Cincinnati stake their claim for a top-four spot, particularly if Evander's form continues.
