Inter Miami CF continue their Leagues Cup 2026 campaign when they host LIGA MX powerhouse CF Monterrey on Saturday night.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4fzyW80" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

<a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/leagues-cup/2026/matches/miavsmty-08-08-2026/" target="_blank">Saturday, Aug. 8</a> | 8 pm ET/5 pm PT

Nu Stadium | Miami, Florida

In Phase One, each team plays three matches against opponents from the opposite league. The top four clubs from each league-specific table advance to the quarterfinals.

The tournament champion will be crowned on Sept. 6. Additionally, the top three finishers qualify for the 2027 Concacaf Champions Cup.

Leagues Cup tickets

Standings

5th in MLS Leagues Cup table

3 points (1W-0L-0D)

Last match

Miami opened their Leagues Cup journey with a comprehensive 4-2 win against Atlético de San Luis on Wednesday, priming themselves for yet another deep tournament run.

Lionel Messi returned to the Miami starting XI for the first time since playing in the 2026 FIFA World Cup final for Argentina and netted a brace, while also setting up Micael's headed goal.

Telasco Segovia tallied the Herons' other goal, and homegrown defender Noah Allen added a hat trick of assists.

Players to watch

Rodrigo De Paul: Hailed as "Messi's bodyguard" for club and country, De Paul (4g/8a) is enjoying his first full season with Miami after scoring the game-winning goal in last year's MLS Cup.

Casemiro: The most recent superstar to sign for Miami after a legendary European career, Casemiro won five UEFA Champions League titles during a storied run with Real Madrid.

Noah Allen: The 22-year-old did his best Jordi Alba impression vs. San Luis, providing a hat trick of assists in Miami's tournament opener.

Rocco Ríos Novo: Since returning from the World Cup break, the Argentine-American goalkeeper has taken the starting role from Dayne St. Clair.

Need to know

The Herons captured the club's first-ever trophy as Leagues Cup 2023 champions immediately upon Messi's stateside arrival, followed by Supporters' Shield (2024) and MLS Cup (2025) titles.

But without suspended striker Luis Suárez and injury concerns facing fellow forwards Germán Berterame and Matteo Silvetti, Miami have their work cut out for them to maintain their trophy-winning standard against one of LIGA MX's top sides as they seek a third Leagues Cup final appearance in four seasons.

Plus, after an early Round of 16 Concacaf Champions Cup exit to Nashville SC in March, there's pressure to add another piece of international silverware to the trophy cabinet.

Standings

9th in LIGA MX Leagues Cup table

0 points (0W-1L-0D)

Last match

Monterrey were unable to overcome French star Antoine Griezmann and Orlando City in their Leagues Cup 2026 opener, falling 2-1 to the MLS side.

Griezmann opened the scoring before Tyrese Spicer converted a penalty kick to seal the match. Former Chicago Fire FC standout Hugo Cuypers netted his first goal for Monterrey with a late tally.

Players to watch

Lucas Ocampos: LIGA MX's current top scorer, Ocampos is in peak form, having netted four goals in Monterrey's first three games of the season.

Diego Rossi: A recent addition from the Columbus Crew, Rossi is a former MLS Golden Boot winner (2019) with LAFC. He already has 1g/1a in three LIGA MX appearances.

Hugo Cuypers: Departing as the joint-MLS Golden Boot leader this season, Cuypers moved to Monterrey from Chicago following the club's addition of superstar Robert Lewandowski.

Jesús Corona: The club captain, "Tecatito" is in his second stint with his boyhood club after spending a decade in Europe.

Need to know

Rayados earned LIGA MX's best-ever tournament finish in 2023, finishing fourth following a 3-0 loss against the Philadelphia Union in the Third-Place Match.

One of Mexico's biggest clubs, Monterrey have also had recent success in North American continental competition, lifting the Concacaf Champions Cup in 2019 and 2021.

That includes knocking the Herons out of the 2024 CCC at the quarterfinal stage, 5-2 on aggregate, in the only previous meeting between these two clubs.
