Whether it's signing global superstars or completing intra-league moves, MLS just completed an eventful summer transfer window.

Nearly half the league added a new Designated Player, while others found more creative ways to utilize their various roster spots.

Whatever the strategy, let's look at each club's biggest signing and how their impact will be felt.

Atlanta made one of the summer’s biggest splashes by acquiring Swiss international striker Breel Embolo from Stade Rennais. He arrives fresh off a strong 2026 FIFA World Cup with Switzerland, starting six matches and contributing 2g/2a as his country reached the quarterfinals.

Embolo brings extensive experience in Europe’s top leagues, including stints in the Bundesliga with Schalke 04 and Borussia Mönchengladbach and France’s Ligue 1 with AS Monaco and Stade Rennais.

The Verde & Black added Polish international winger Przemysław Płacheta on a free transfer following six seasons in England, most recently with Oxford United.

The 28-year-old brings pace and versatility to Austin’s attack, along with experience in both the EFL Championship and Premier League.

Charlotte FC added a high-profile attacker, signing French winger Allan Saint-Maximin to a Designated Player contract following Wilfried Zaha's midseason departure.

The 29-year-old is best known for his time with Newcastle United in the Premier League and brings elite pace and creativity to Charlotte’s attack.

Chicago made arguably the biggest splash of the window with their blockbuster move for legendary Polish striker Robert Lewandowski following his departure from FC Barcelona.

Poland’s all-time leading scorer – who boasts more than 700 goals for club and country, alongside a trophy-laden résumé spanning Barcelona, Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich – is one of the most accomplished No. 9s of his generation.

FC Cincinnati made a significant move on deadline day, adding Czech international midfielder David Douděra from Slavia Prague.

Douděra has recorded 29g/33a in nearly 300 professional club matches and was part of Czechia's 2026 World Cup squad.

The Rapids completely overhauled their attack this summer. After trading star striker Rafael Navarro to St. Louis CITY, Colorado revamped their front line with three key signings, none bigger than Morgan Whittaker.

The 25-year-old Englishman arrives for a club-record fee (reported $10.7 million) from EFL Championship side Middlesbrough. He's tallied 59g/28a in 258 senior appearances and helped Boro reach the Championship Playoff Final last season.

Columbus added two DPs during the transfer window: former New York City FC standout Santiago Rodríguez and Spanish international Brais Méndez.

Rodríguez was last at Brazilian top-flight side Botafogo and is a 2021 MLS Cup champion. Méndez arrives from LaLiga side Real Sociedad, where he also featured in the UEFA Champions League and Europa League.

D.C. United added Nathan Ordaz, who brings crucial MLS experience in the final third.

The El Salvador international was a key piece of LAFC’s star-studded attack for three-plus seasons before being traded for up to $2.875 million.

FC Dallas bolstered their goalkeeping unit with veteran shot-stopper Daniel, who was acquired from the San Jose Earthquakes.

They then hit the international market, signing promising Nigerian winger Daniel Job to a U22 Initiative deal after he impressed in Norway.

Houston made a deadline-day flourish, completing a loan deal for South African international striker Lyle Foster. He arrives from EFL Championship side Burnley and helps replace Ezequiel Ponce, who's now in LaLiga with Elche CF.

The Dynamo also brought in Marcelo Saracchi. The left back is a full Uruguay international and has spent time at notable European clubs, including Celtic, Galatasaray and RB Leipzig.

Sporting Kansas City acquired Brazilian winger André Luiz for a club-record fee worth a reported $18 million plus add-ons.

Luiz has produced 28g/13a in 140 club appearances since debuting in 2021 with boyhood club Flamengo. He arrives from Greek juggernauts Olympiacos.

The LA Galaxy took multiple big swings this summer, but perhaps none bigger than a swoop for Spanish midfielder Sergi Roberto.

Roberto is best known for his time at FC Barcelona, where he enjoyed a 14-year career and won 20 trophies. Most recently, he featured for Como 1907 and helped the Italian side reach the UEFA Champions League for the first time.

LAFC brought in Armindo Sieb, adding more firepower to their front line. The 23-year-old former German youth international arrives from global powerhouse Bayern Munich.

The Black & Gold also brought in a U22 Initiative winger. Brazilian youngster Thayllon Roberth helps replace David Martínez, who was transferred to Danish Superliga side FC Midtjylland for reportedly around $8.5 million.

Inter Miami continued their history of high-profile moves, bringing in Brazilian legend Casemiro to boost the midfield.

The former Real Madrid and Manchester United standout has won 21 career trophies and featured in the last three World Cups for Brazil.

Then on deadline day, the reigning MLS Cup champions completed a clever loan deal for Paraguayan international midfielder Matías Galarza, who arrives from Argentine powerhouse River Plate and scored at the 2026 World Cup.

A familiar face returned to Minnesota United this summer, as Aziel Jackson rejoined the club on loan from Polish top-flight club Jagiellonia Białystok.

After spending the first half of 2026 with the Vancouver Whitecaps, Jackson returned to the Loons, where he previously signed a homegrown deal in April 2021.

CF Montréal were active during the transfer window, with their biggest incoming move being Chilean legend Alexis Sánchez.

The veteran forward has spent most of his career in Europe, playing for clubs such as Arsenal, Manchester United, FC Barcelona and Inter Milan. He's won 20 trophies at club level, as well as two Copa América titles with his national team.

The Supporters' Shield leaders have continued to bolster their squad with high-impact players, adding Tunisian international Elias Saad on loan from German Bundesliga side FC Augsburg.

Saad started two of Tunisia's three games at the 2026 World Cup and has fit right into Nashville's attack.

New England brought in Designated Player winger Jack Harrison from English Premier League side Leeds United.

Harrison, who broke through with New York City FC a decade ago, has already bagged six assists in just five matches this year.

The Revs also moved USMNT goalkeeper Matt Turner off a DP deal upon his return from Lyon, and smartly added former Best XI midfielder Dániel Gazdag via free agency.

Red Bull New York added Honduran international midfielder David Ruíz, signing the youngster on loan from Inter Miami.

Ruíz has featured in more than 80 matches and helped Miami win several titles.

New York City FC acquired Bénie Traoré from Swiss Super League powerhouse FC Basel 1893, adding the Ivory Coast international as a Designated Player.

The attacking reinforcements didn't stop there, as the Pigeons also signed Brazilian youth international Luighi on loan from Palmeiras. He's on a U22 Initiative deal.

Orlando propelled themselves into the global spotlight with the arrival of French superstar forward Antoine Griezmann.

The early returns on "Grizi" have been fantastic: the 2018 World Cup winner and Atlético Madrid legend has produced 4g/3a in seven games, helping push the Lions into the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs picture.

While much of the Philadelphia Union's second-half turnaround (5W-0L-2D record since the World Cup) can be traced to the breakout form of homegrown sensations Cavan Sullivan and Neil Pierre, that only tells part of the story.

The Union also brought back all-time club assists leader Kai Wagner in July on a DP deal following a brief spell at EFL Championship side Birmingham City. The three-time All-Star and two-time Best XI left back has picked up where he left off, dishing four assists through the first seven matches of his second tenure in Philly.

The Portland Timbers brought in forward Vincent Janssen, a Dutch international and 2022 World Cup veteran who most recently served as captain for Belgian Pro League side Royal Antwerp.

Janssen has also featured for the likes of AZ Alkmaar in the Netherlands, English Premier League side Tottenham Hotspur, Fenerbahçe in Turkey, and LIGA MX's CF Monterrey.

His importance increased in recent days after Venezuelan international striker Kevin Kelsy moved to Scottish Premiership powerhouse Rangers FC for a club-record fee of reportedly $13 million, plus add-ons and a sell-on percentage.

Real Salt Lake's window was defined by quantity rather than making a splash.

That said, the biggest newcomer is arguably defender Luc de Fougerolles. The 20-year-old center back is on loan from EPL side Fulham and was a key starter for Canada at the 2026 World Cup.

After playing in all three of Tunisia’s 2026 World Cup matches, Elias Achouri landed in San Diego as the club’s newest DP.

The dynamic winger most recently played for Danish powerhouse FC Copenhagen, and now he'll line up with 2025 MLS Newcomer of the Year Anders Dreyer.

The attacking moves didn't stop there, as SDFC also signed veteran striker Cédric Bakambu via free agency. The DR Congo international last played for LaLiga side Real Betis and also featured at the 2026 World Cup.

A fan favorite since St. Louis CITY's inaugural 2023 MLS season, Eduard Löwen hopes to occupy the same role in San Jose.

The former German youth international aims to reignite the Earthquakes' early-season success, bringing experience and quality in midfield.

The Sounders brought in Dejan Joveljić as their latest DP, acquiring the Serbian international striker from Sporting Kansas City in a $6 million cash-for-player trade.

An MLS Cup-winning goalscorer during his time with LA Galaxy, Joveljić is sure to provide much-needed danger for a team battling injuries.

St. Louis CITY reshaped their attack with three key names. While USMNT striker Damion Downs and Danish international DP Carlo Holse could certainly prove influential, Rafael Navarro is the biggest swing.

The Brazilian striker joins St. Louis from Colorado via the largest cash-for-player trade package in MLS history, a club-record fee of up to $12.25 million. He's reached double-digit goals in three straight MLS seasons and brings top-notch work off the ball.

Arriving for a reported $4.2 million transfer fee from Heidenheim, German midfielder Niklas Dorsch has wasted no time endearing himself to the Toronto FC faithful.

Dorsch has already scored two crucial goals for the Reds and projects as a key part of their rebuild.

Serbian youth international Aleksa Cvetković has big shoes to help fill, arriving on a U22 Initiative deal after USMNT midfielder Sebastian Berhalter was transferred to EFL Championship side Middlesbrough.

Cvetković is one of six newcomers for Vancouver, who have also added Guinean international forward Yadaly Diaby and Angolan international fullback Rui Modesto.
