Meet Juan Manuel Sanabria.

Real Salt Lake's versatile wingback will represent Uruguay at this summer's 2026 FIFA World Cup.

His national team coach is Marcelo Bielsa, who has famously led Argentina, Athletic Bilbao, Leeds United and many more squads.

Age: 26

Hometown: Florida, Uruguay

Sanabria is in his first MLS season with Real Salt Lake, joining the club in February from LIGA MX side Atlético San Luis.

He's become an instant starter under head coach Pablo Mastroeni, combining defensive smarts and offensive service from the left side of the pitch.

Additionally, the former Atlético Madrid youth player is the older brother of LA Galaxy midfielder Lucas Sanabria.

Awards & stats

0g/6a in 11 MLS appearances

Real Salt Lake schedule

Caps: 5

Goals: 1

Sanabria played himself into the Uruguay national team mix towards the end of 2025, earning his first call-up from head coach Marcelo Bielsa in September for the final South American (Conmebol) World Cup qualifiers.

He made his official debut the following month, scoring his first goal in a 2-1 friendly win over Uzbekistan.

Uruguay are in Group H alongside Spain, Saudi Arabia and Cape Verde.

June 15: Uruguay vs. Saudi Arabia, 6 pm ET | Miami, Florida

June 21: Uruguay vs. Cape Verde, 6 pm ET | Miami, Florida

June 26: Uruguay vs. Spain, 8 pm ET | Guadalajara, Mexico

The 2026 World Cup, which runs from June 11 to July 19, has expanded from the usual 32 nations to 48 total.

The top two teams advance from each group, and the top eight third-place finishers also make the knockout phase (Round of 32).

Uruguay have qualified for 15 World Cups, with this summer's tournament marking their fifth consecutive appearance.

One of only three South American nations – along with Brazil and Argentina – to win the competition, Los Charrúas were crowned champions as hosts in 1930 and in 1950.

Uruguay finished fourth in South American World Cup qualifying with 28 points.

The top six nations in Conmebol's 10-team round robin secured automatic spots.
