The 20th edition of the Florida Derby will unfold at a new venue on Saturday when Inter Miami CF host arch-rivals Orlando City at Nu Stadium.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4mLmML8" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

FS1

Saturday, May 2 | 7:15 pm ET/4:15 pm PT

Nu Stadium | Miami, Florida

Record

2nd in Eastern Conference

19 points, 5W-1L-4D

What to know

This is Inter Miami's fourth match at Nu Stadium, and they're still seeking their first victory at the 26,700-capacity venue that debuted in early April.

The defending MLS Cup presented by Audi champions hoped to break through last weekend vs. the New England Revolution, but were held to a 1-1 draw.

The Herons are led by interim coach Guillermo Hoyos, who took over in mid-April after manager Javier Mascherano's unexpected departure.

Hoyos started with consecutive wins at Rocky Mountain rivals Colorado Rapids and Real Salt Lake, which contributed to the club's current 11-game unbeaten streak across all competitions.

Who to watch

Lionel Messi: The Argentine legend and back-to-back Landon Donovan MLS MVP has a team-high seven goals in nine matches. He's also earned two Player of the Matchday presented by Michelob ULTRA nods this season.

Rodrigo De Paul: The 2022 FIFA World Cup champion is heating up as Argentina look to defend their title, tallying 1g/3a in their last four games.

Germán Berterame: After facing criticism, the Mexican international striker has responded with three goals in his last four games. Will it be enough to make El Tri's 2026 World Cup roster?

Dayne St. Clair: The 2025 MLS Goalkeeper of the Year is pushing to be Canada's starter at the World Cup. He has 19 caps as this summer's tournament fast approaches.

Telasco Segovia: Segovia adds impressive work rate on both sides of the ball. He also has a team-high five assists this year.

Predicted XI

Yannick Bright and Segovia are back from suspension, helping strengthen the midfield. However, the fullback spots are more fluid and winger Mateo Silvetti is nursing a hamstring injury.

Record

14th in Eastern Conference

7 points, 2W-7L-1D

What to know

Orlando fans are counting down the days until Antoine Griezmann, signed last month, formally joins the club in July.

Before the French superstar arrives from LaLiga side Atlético Madrid, it's all about ensuring they stay in the mix for a seventh straight Audi MLS Cup Playoffs trip.

They're only five points below the Eastern Conference cut-off line, and could narrow the margin with a statement win against their arch-rivals.

The Lions are also looking to avoid a three-game losing streak against Messi & Co., having last won the Florida Derby in August 2025.

Who to watch

Martín Ojeda: After providing a club-record 39 goal contributions (all competitions) last season, the Argentine playmaker has a team-high four goals this year.

Maxime Crépeau: Up against fellow CanMNT goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair, Crépeau has a chance to impress international coach Jesse Marsch. They're battling for a starting role at this summer's World Cup.

Braian Ojeda: Acquired this winter from Real Salt Lake, the Paraguayan midfielder has quickly become one of Orlando's most dependable players.

Robin Jansson: Orlando have allowed a league-high 29 goals this season. If anyone can help staunch the bleeding, it's the veteran Swedish center back.

Justin Ellis: The homegrown forward has tallied 2g/2a in his first six appearances with Orlando's first team. Ellis is a promising US youth international.

Predicted XI

Interim coach Martín Perelman, who took over from longtime manager Oscar Pareja in mid-March, has tried a slew of lineups. That's largely due to injury (see: Marco Pašalić and Duncan McGuire), as well as trying to spark a turnaround.

It all boils down to Messi's impact. He's been held off the scoresheet in back-to-back games, and rarely goes three matches without a goal. Expect Miami's captain to come out firing.
