Nashville SC are running away with the Supporters' Shield title and Vancouver Whitecaps FC look like the class of the Western Conference, but neither team has a Landon Donovan MLS MVP candidate in my top five right now.

How can that be? Nashville are such a good team; they have players up and down the roster playing at a really high level, though nobody is standing out on an individual basis.

Sam Surridge and Hany Muhktar have been great, and Andy Nájar and Cristian Espinoza have been special down that right side, but I don't think any have a strong enough case for MVP. And I suspect that head coach B.J Callaghan won't mind one bit.

Meanwhile, Vancouver's MVP candidate from the first half of the season, Sebastian Berhalter, moved to English side Middlesbrough last month. The USMNT midfielder was in fantastic form.

As August comes to a close, let's jump into my top five.

Nico has been one of the best and most consistent players in MLS since he arrived last summer from LaLiga.

The Argentine's consistency with New York City FC across several positions has been impressive. We've seen him play winger, attacking midfield, and striker. He has been equally pivotal in all of those spots. tallying 13 goals and six assists on the season.

But does he return to Europe or head elsewhere? There's a lot of speculation about his future with NYCFC.

Petar Musa has created a long list of accomplishments since joining FC Dallas.

He's got three straight seasons with 15+ goals, started and scored for Croatia at the 2026 FIFA World Cup, and leads MLS with 16 goals this season.

Musa is the best striker in MLS, and if he can win the Golden Boot presented by Audi and carry FC Dallas up the standings, he might just claim the MVP trophy.

I'll be honest: I didn't know much about Guilherme before he arrived in MLS this past winter. Yet, I have been blown away by the Brazilian's play.

Houston are a solid, well-rounded team that works hard. But any team that climbs to the summit of their conference also needs one or two difference-makers in the attack.

Guilherme has been that guy for Houston from first kick. He's provided 12 goals and seven assists, often operating from the left wing, and is building a strong case for Newcomer of the Year.

We're witnessing another MVP-type campaign from FC Cincinnati's No. 10.

He seems more comfortable in the final third with each passing season. Evander is box office, and whenever he shoots from long range, I hold my breath waiting to see a golazo. The Brazilian's superb finishes against Charlotte and San Jose stand out.

His 13 goals and 11 assists are already worthy of the Best XI, but he's still got 13 more games to improve those stats and try to nab his first MVP award.

Messi and Evander are again locked in a neck-and-neck battle for MVP.

And while it feels impossible to choose one right now, I am giving Messi the slight edge. He's got more goals (14) than his fellow No. 10, and he's helped his team climb higher in the standings.

Despite some struggles right now, Inter Miami are a contender to win MLS Cup again. And Messi looks the favorite to take home his third MVP in a row.
