After leading the charge in Orlando City's improbable comeback victory on Matchday 11, Martín Ojeda has been named MLS Player of the Matchday presented by Michelob ULTRA.

Ojeda scored a hat trick on the road in Orlando's 4-3 triumph over Inter Miami CF on Saturday – denying the Florida Derby rivals their first-ever win at Nu Stadium.

With his three goals, Ojeda joined Cyle Larin as the only players in Lions history to score multiple regular-season hat tricks, after he produced one on May 10, 2025 against the New England Revolution.

The Argentine midfielder is one of four players to have at least one hat trick in each of the last two seasons, alongside Tai Baribo, Denis Bouanga, and Sam Surridge. He also became the first player in club history to record at least 70 regular-season goal contributions (33g/37a).

The victory made Orlando just the fourth team in MLS history to win a match after trailing by at least three goals, and the first to do so since the LA Galaxy against LAFC (March 31, 2018).

This is the first time that Ojeda has been named MLS Player of the Matchday and he is the first Orlando City player to earn the honor since Luis Muriel (Matchday 28 of 2025).

Ojeda joins Lionel Messi (eight times) as the only Argentine-born players in the last two seasons to take home MLS Player of the Matchday honors.

Ojeda and Orlando return to action on Saturday when they visit CF Montréal (4:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/cf-montreal-vs-orlando-city/umc.cse.67ms8wvzp2zda4w7ghzuz2q4d?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.7000%2Ctvs.sbd.4000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

The MLS Player of the Matchday is selected each matchday of the regular season through both media and fan voting in a process conducted by MLS Communications. A panel of journalists from the North American Soccer Reporters (NASR) comprises 75 percent of the vote, while an Instagram fan vote represents the remaining 25 percent of voting. NASR consists of members of print, television, radio, and online media.
