It took Vincent Janssen no time to enter the Portland Timbers' record books.

In just his fourth match since signing in late July, the 32-year-old Dutch international became the first Timbers player ever to score an MLS hat trick, leading the line in a wild 5-4 win against Minnesota United FC on Saturday at Providence Park.

Janssen, who arrived in the Rose City after spending the last four seasons competing for Belgian Pro League side Royal Antwerp, also became just the third player in MLS history to net a hat trick in his first start.

He shares the honors with legendary Didier Drogba (CF Montréal) and Philadelphia Union forward Milan Iloski, who accomplished the feat with San Diego FC.

Vinny, thank you for changing our lives 💚 pic.twitter.com/5kQLOIC195

After scoring his first Timbers goal from the penalty spot in the 11th minute, Janssen had his brace in the 26th minute, extending Portland's lead to 3-0.

And after the Loons rallied to level the match, Janssen made history in the 55th minute by taking a feed from Ariel Lassiter, turning in the box and firing a first-time attempt low inside the post for the match winner.

"Obviously it's very special to score a hat trick, it's always a special moment in your career. You don't have a lot of them," Janssen told Apple TV after the match.

"It's a pleasure. I was able to sign here a month ago, a bit longer. To be able to be part of this club, I'm very proud and happy of that, and today this is a way of showing the appreciation back to the team and to the fans."

Smiling through it all, can’t believe this is our life 🥹 pic.twitter.com/i1XvdjyhRf

Janssen, who contributed 64g/27a in 173 matches (all competitions) at Royal Antwerp, left the match in the 68th minute to a rousing ovation from the Timbers' faithful.

Although it was a nervy final few moments, Janssen secured three massive points for the Timbers, who moved level with seventh-place Colorado Rapids (31 points) with 11 matches remaining in the regular season.
