If absence makes the heart grow fonder, then Niko Tsakris's return to the scoresheet must have felt pretty sweet on Wednesday night.

Guiding the San Jose Earthquakes to a 3–2 win over California foes San Diego FC, the 21-year-old homegrown star marked his Man of the Match performance with 1g/2a, his first time rippling the net since suffering a groin injury on May 2 against Toronto FC.

While that setback forced him into surgery and a four-month recovery, Tsakris returned to the Earthquakes’ matchday squad on Aug. 15, but had yet to post his first goal until Wednesday’s win.

It wouldn't take him long to get going in the match, as he scored in the third minute, followed by a stunning trivela assist to Preston Judd in the 12th minute.

“I think it was just going to be a matter of time,” he said after the match. “Obviously, I was out for a little bit, and coming back into the team, I know that it was just going to take time to build up that chemistry and tonight, little by little, it came together.”

Bringing him to 3g/10a in 17 games this season, Tsakris was right back to the form he showed in the spring, when he netted 3g/7a and led MLS in chances created, key passes and corner kicks, before sustaining the injury.

hey @SportsCenter, consider this our official submission for Top 10 Goals of the Year. 🤝 pic.twitter.com/nil1ukIerz

Back in the spring, Tsakris played a key role in the Earthquakes’ hot start, which saw them win nine of the first 10 games and sit atop the Western Conference and Supporters’ Shield race.

Without him, and with an injury to marquee offseason striker signing Timo Werner, the Earthquakes endured a downturn in form, securing just three points in the previous eight games since returning from the FIFA World Cup break.

And with Werner sidelined with a lower-body injury since Aug. 22, Tskaris needed to rekindle his form as the talismanic leader.

Courtesy of his performance against San Diego, he brought those vibes back and secured San Jose’s first win in nine games, dating back to a May 23 victory against the Portland Timbers.

“We are taking things game by game, and going to Texas and getting two points on the road was big for us just for momentum,” Tsakris said, with the win following draws against Austin FC and Houston Dynamo FC and pushing them to fifth in the Western Conference with 38 points.

“Tonight, the team had a good performance ... and obviously, we're aware of the standings. I think everybody is right now, but our approach is still the same. We know what needs to be done. Our goal is to make the playoffs and to have a home playoff match.”

someone make this man a fan account already pic.twitter.com/4MJYQkVK46

With his early-season form, rumors swirled about Tskaris’ potential to make the US men’s national team’s World Cup squad.

While his injury ended those hopes, the midfielder’s performance on Wednesday revived his national team aspirations, potentially for September/October friendlies against Peru, Chile, Mexico and Canada.

USMNT head coach Marucio Pochettino, signed to a fresh deal through the 2030 World Cup, is expected to call in an expanded squad and signaled this week that he could call in youthful talents to pair with more experienced players.

Tsakris could very well be among those options and said it would be “an unbelievable opportunity,” if it came to fruition.

For now though, the focus remains short-term. The Earthquakes will look to link back-to-back wins for the first time since May on Saturday, taking on the red-hot Houston Dynamo (10:30 pm ET | Apple TV), who sit second in the West.
