It didn’t take long for two of MLS’s brightest – and newest – stars to show why they’re among the biggest names in soccer.

In his very first game for Orlando City, Antoine Griezmann found himself on the scoresheet. A FIFA World Cup champion with France, Griezmann notched a goal during a 4-0 win over the San Jose Earthquakes last month.

Like the former Atlético Madrid superstar attacker, Robert Lewandowski also found the scoring column in short order. With his second start for Chicago Fire FC, the former Bayern Munich and FC Barcelona striker nabbed a brace in a 2-1 win over Charlotte FC.

Both Griezmann and Lewandowski have proven themselves to be must-watch players upon arrival. And now? They're going head-to-head on Wednesday evening at Inter.co Stadium (7:30 pm ET | <a href="https://soc.cr/3RW8BId" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

Let’s dive into both halves of this superstar clash.

How he’s being used: Mostly as a free-wheeling No. 10. And it's awesome.

Griezmann, with his clever off-ball movement and soft first touch, has been magnetic for Orlando City. Playing as an attacking midfielder with plenty of freedom to drift around the field, the Frenchman leads all non-Orlando center backs in passes per 90 minutes, according to Opta. Across his MLS regular season and Leagues Cup games, the actions on Griezmann’s touch map are about as widespread as they come.

Given just how many roles Griezmann has thrived in throughout his illustrious career – second striker, striker, narrow winger, attacking midfielder, and central midfielder – you certainly can’t blame Orlando interim coach Martín Perelman for giving his new star the keys. While it’s possible that Griezmann’s role could shift as the season goes on, the attacking midfield spot seems a perfect fit.

What he brings to the table: Elite attacking incision.

Even as he acclimates to his new surroundings, Griezmann is already delivering a ton of value in the most important spots on the field. According to Opta, he ranks eighth in through balls per 90 among MLS players with at least four appearances, and the safe money is on him continuing to climb those rankings before Decision Day. It’s not just distribution, though, that sets Griezmann apart. He’s also third among Orlando City starters in progressive carries per 90 and expected goals per 90.

Griezmann is an attacking dynamo of the highest order.

Which teammate is benefiting the most: Justin Ellis.

The 19-year-old homegrown broke out just before Griezmann’s arrival, but has quickly developed a seemingly telepathic understanding with the new DP. Ellis, an attacker with USMNT potential, has shown the ability to interchange and combine with Griezmann at an impressive level. With back-to-goal savvy and comfort in just about any attacking situation, Ellis is unlike any other player in the USMNT pool. He brings a level of versatility to the No. 9 position that’s uncommon worldwide.

Ellis assisted Griezmann’s inaugural MLS goal, and the veteran has been <a href="https://x.com/USMNTOtaku/status/2081553101870236121" target="_blank">singing his praises</a> for one of the league’s brightest young talents. Expect to see the two link up for more brilliance before the season is out.

What he needs to do against Chicago: Dictate as much of the game as possible.

When Griezmann is on the ball, Orlando City are exceedingly dangerous. All roads flow through the World Cup winner for the Lions, which is exactly how things should be.

How he’s being used: Same as it ever was.

Lewandowski is, at his core, a true goal-scoring striker. There’s a reason he scored more than 300 goals in the German Bundesliga for Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich before averaging more than 20 goals per season across his four-year spell in LaLiga for FC Barcelona. The Polish No. 9 is simply lethal.

Head coach Gregg Berhalter is rightly using the veteran as the tip of his attacking spear, with an attacking midfielder or second striker often playing close to Lewandowski while wingers and fullbacks form the rest of the attacking line.

What he brings to the table: Plenty of this:

Lewandowski's pinpoint shooting accuracy is a major asset. That goal up above against Charlotte FC – the one that opened his MLS account – is a perfect example. Lewandowski had only a sliver of space to shoot through defensive traffic and past goalkeeper Kristijan Kahlina, and he did exactly that.

Of course, Lewandowski’s game is built off more than just his finishing instincts. The striker also has a top-tier ability to move off the ball and find space inside the box. His understanding of space and clear picture of where his teammates (and opponents) are positioned around him is truly game-changing.

See: This dummy, run into the box, and first touch? Picturesque.

Which teammate is benefiting the most: Philip Zinckernagel

The Danish winger was already among the best players in MLS, leading the Fire in goal contributions last season and second only to the recently departed Hugo Cuypers this season. But Lewandowski’s arrival has opened new opportunities for Zinckernagel via the former’s on-ball savviness.

In Lewandowski, Zinckernagel has a willing and able partner to combine with. And with the right entry pass and off-ball run, Zinckernagel will enjoy no shortage of chances like this one against Santos Laguna in Leagues Cup:

Now, Zinckernagel’s chance ultimately went unfinished before Lewandowski tapped it home at the far post. But a chance resulted from their interplay all the same.

These two players are on the same wavelength in the attack, which is a terrifying reality for opposing defenses.

What he needs to do against Orlando: Find the right balance between dropping to get on the ball and finding the right gaps off the ball.

Though Lewandowski's primary objective remains unchanged (score goals from the No. 9 spot), he is still adjusting to his new teammates in a different attacking setup. If he can pick the right moments to come deep and find a devastating pass, as well as the right ones to stay high and latch onto service, Chicago will be tough to stop.
