CHICAGO – Chicago Fire FC's superstar has arrived.

Robert Lewandowski – a striker who needs no introduction – needed just 20 minutes in his Soldier Field debut to open his Chicago Fire FC account on Saturday. Midway through the second half, he completed his takeover of the match, magnificently scoring what would prove to be the winner in a 2-1 victory over Charlotte FC.

“That type of quality is hard to find,” head coach Gregg Berhalter said postgame. “When you look at the two goals he scored and some of the other plays he made in the game, it’s just very high quality.

“He’s dynamic, smart and clever. He sees the game and reads the game very well. Most importantly, in the box, he’s an absolute killer. This is hopefully the beginning of a lot of goals.”

Since his blockbuster arrival two weeks ago, Lewandowski got his first taste of MLS in road losses to Inter Miami and New York City FC. Saturday night marked his official introduction to his new fans in Chicago, and he did it in style.

For his first goal, the Polish No. 9 blasted a shot from the edge of the penalty box into the bottom left corner, leveling the game after Pep Biel had given Charlotte an early lead.

Then, when the Fire needed a second-half moment of inspiration, the Polish legend showcased the elite quality that has made him one of the world’s most feared strikers of the last two decades.

“Every time I go to a new club, I’m waiting for the first goal,” Lewandowski said. “It’s important for me to show that I’m here, to score the goal and for us to win the game. I think it makes the next step a little bit easier – for the team and also for me.

“I’m really happy to be here. I enjoy every day: the lifestyle, the club and the organization. Everything is really at a top level. I cannot say one bad word about the club, and I’m very impressed that everything is working very well, both on and off the pitch.”

There may be nobody happier with Lewandowski’s spellbinding night than Berhalter. The Fire’s director of football and head coach has sought to bring a big name to the Windy City since he arrived at the club, and the star No. 9 is the perfect manifestation of that.

Though the accompanying exit of Golden Boot-contending forward Hugo Cuypers has been a talking point, Lewandowski’s brace puts to bed any doubt.

“\[Lewandowski\] is invested in what’s going on here, and that’s the most important thing,” Berhalter said. “He cares, and he shows he cares through his communication, his effort on the field and his effort in training.

“He’s a top-class professional, and I know how badly he wants to win. Part of that is him realizing that this is a great opportunity for him, and he wants to take full advantage of it.”

Lewandowski’s goals in his Soldier Field introduction put him in elite company for the Fire. He is just the fourth Fire player to ever score a brace in his home debut, joining Frank Klopas (1998), Andy Herron (2008) and Tomasz Frankowski (2008). It’s exactly what you’d expect from a player with his resumé.

“It was my first game here in Chicago, and I’m very glad to be here,” Lewandowski said. “I’m enjoying it a lot. I enjoy every day. The people are very kind – not only inside the locker room and the club, but also on the streets.

“I’m really impressed by the city in a positive way, especially now in the summertime. We still have to work on a couple of things, of course, but we’re looking forward. I hope that in the next game, we’re going to play better and better – and also win.”

During the week, Berhalter admitted the Fire were a team “still trying to figure things out” after making a big change mid-season. Though there was a clear adaptation process in the first two games, they looked back on track against Charlotte.

“With a new team, you need a little bit more time to understand how your teammates play,” Lewandowski said. “What kind of football they play, their positioning with and without the ball. It’s teamwork. Every day and every training session, I see more, and my teammates also know me better.”

In fourth place in the Eastern Conference with a game in hand, the Fire are firmly among the teams hoping to compete for a spot in the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs for a second straight season.

With at least three Leagues Cup games to further gel and build under their new-look approach, as well as a full month of an open transfer window, hopes are high heading into the final stretch of 2026.

“I don’t think we’re there yet,” Berhalter said. “I think we have another gear, to be honest. I think we showed glimpses.

"But there’s more to come. And as we get more comfortable with each other and what this new look is, I think we’re going to create even more chances.”
