The Columbus Crew can punch their ticket to the Leagues Cup 2026 semifinals on Wednesday night, but they'll first have to overcome one of North America's biggest clubs (10:45 pm ET | <a href="https://soc.cr/4ctovRa" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

Columbus face LIGA MX giants Club América at LA Galaxy's Dignity Health Sports Park, with Las Águilas entering the quarterfinal matchup after an unbeaten Phase One. They have also not lost in the LIGA MX Apertura through five matches and top the table with 13 points.

"It's such a luxury to play those types of games," Columbus interim head coach Laurent Courtois said midweek.

"Of course, it's going to be tough. Of course, we respect our opponent, but we're so blessed to have those types of environments and showcase ourselves."

Further, the matchup offers Columbus a chance to turn the page on their MLS form.

The Crew advanced through Phase One unbeaten, but have since dropped three straight league matches, including a dramatic 3-2 setback at Nashville SC on Saturday.

"It's a new opportunity, new game, new opponent from a different league," said captain Sean Zawadzki. "Everything that's gone up to this point goes out the door. It's a new opportunity in front of you. It's three games to a trophy and it starts now."

Part of that equation has been integrating new Designated Player summer signing Brais Méndez, who is still working his way into the group after he arrived from LaLiga side Real Sociedad.

The Spanish playmaker has already offered glimpses of the creativity and technical ability the Crew hope will boost the team as he builds chemistry with his new teammates.

"I think it'll bring us closer. However, since I've gotten to play for Columbus Crew, I've seen a very united team," Méndez said of his team's recent adversity. "I might even call it a small family, where we have such a good mood every day. We have great spirit. We get along perfectly.

"Also, players, technical staff, and of course, we're a big family. This will bring us closer than ever, so that in tough times we can overcome them together."

Club América have looked like a contender so far, advancing through Phase One with victories over San Diego FC and the Portland Timbers before a 1-1 draw against Austin FC (penalty-kick defeat).

Former LAFC winger Brian Rodríguez and América are also a familiar foe, with Columbus overcoming Las Águilas 4-1 in Leagues Cup 2023 before the LIGA MX side returned the favor in the 2024 Campeones Cup, prevailing in penalties after a 1-1 draw.

"It's a dream we've played, actually. I feel like every year \[recently\] for the most part, just based off how we've both done and had these opportunities to play each other," said Zawadzki. "Obviously, it's a historical team, and so it's an exciting matchup. I'm excited to see what's in store."

Playing in Los Angeles, Columbus are expecting to contend with a heavy presence from the Club América fanbase.

"It's probably going to be a stadium that's going against us," said Zawadzki. "So stick within ourselves as a group and keep that cohesiveness and go out there and fight for each other."
