The 2026 MLS season was back with a bang on Matchday 1, and plenty of stars came up clutch to earn their place in the year's first Team of the Matchday presented by Audi.

Starters: Kristijan Kahlina (CLT) - Daniel Munie (SJ), Miles Robinson (CIN), Christopher McVey (SD) - Denis Bouanga (LAFC), Adri Mehmeti (RBNY), Stephen Eustáquio (LAFC), Guilherme (HOU) - Petar Musa (DAL), Julian Hall (RBNY), Sam Surridge (NSH)

Coach: Marc Dos Santos (LAFC)

Bench: Maxime Crépeau (ORL), Cole Bassett (POR), Sebastian Berhalter (VAN), Marcel Hartel (STL), Warren Madrigal (NSH), Paul Rothrock (SEA), Anders Dreyer (SD), Logan Farrington (DAL), Tai Baribo (DC)

LAFC put on a proper Hollywood show in the inaugural Walmart Saturday Showdown, cruising to a dominant 3-0 victory over reigning MLS Cup presented by Audi champions Inter Miami CF. A record 75,673 fans attended the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum for the high-profile clash.

Denis Bouanga led the way with 1g/1a and offseason arrival Stephen Eustáquio provided an assist on the opening goal, accentuating Marc Dos Santos’ impressive LAFC managerial debut in league play.

Making up two-thirds of the Red Bull New York teenager trio that made history in a 2-1 statement win at Orlando City, 17-year-old forward Julian Hall netted a brace and 16-year-old midfielder Adri Mehmeti tallied an assist during his spectacular MLS debut.

Guilherme introduced himself to the Houston Dynamo FC faithful in style, netting a late brace in a 2-1 comeback victory over Chicago Fire FC.

Similarly, Petar Musa scored twice in FC Dallas' back-and-forth 3-2 triumph over Toronto FC. Sam Surridge continued the brace trend as Nashville SC eased to a 4-1 win over the New England Revolution.

Later in the night, San Jose Earthquakes defender Daniel Munie joined the double club in a 3-0 victory against Sporting Kansas City, equalling his 2025 goalscoring total with a pair of close-range finishes.

San Diego FC defender Christopher McVey tallied 1g/1a in a 5-0 thrashing of CF Montréal, alongside a 96% passing accuracy. Meanwhile, USMNT center back Miles Robinson showed his class for FC Cincinnati in a 2-0 win over Atlanta United (his former team).

Finally, Kristijan Kahlina recorded 10 saves to ensure Charlotte FC left St. Louis CITY SC with a 1-1 draw in the first game of the 2026 season.
