Two games, two wins for Charlotte FC in Leagues Cup 2026.

Goals from Israeli international Liel Abada and forward Tyger Smalls guided The Crown to a 2-0 victory over Atlas at Bank of America Stadium on Friday night, sending Charlotte to the top of the MLS Leagues Cup table heading into the final Phase One matchday.

The top four teams from each league table (MLS and LIGA MX) will advance to the Leagues Cup quarterfinals (August 25-27).

"I said to the players before the game today, there's 10 MLS teams that have won the first game, so you've got to step up now again," revealed head coach Dean Smith.

"It's back to game one mentality. You've got to go and win if you want to have a chance of progressing"

As much as Charlotte fans will love to see their Designated Player on the scoresheet on Friday night, they'll be equally excited about the fact contributions have come from everywhere in their first two Leagues Cup games.

Perhaps nobody embodies that better than Smalls, who took home Man of the Match honors on the night.

Despite not yet starting a league match this season, the 23-year-old is taking advantage of his opportunities in Leagues Cup, assisting Abada's 78th-minute opener before icing the match in stoppage time with his second goal in as many games.

"I know the talent that he's got," said Smith. "Unfortunately for him, as with other young wide players as well, we've had Designated Players in them positions, so it's hard for them to break in and when they do, they don't get lots of minutes. But I've said it for a long time, he's a really talented kid.

"... Really pleased for him because he works hard, he's a good young kid - I say young, he's 24 now - but hopefully that'll give him the boost of confidence he needs."

Charlotte have also been impenetrable on the defensive end, keeping consecutive clean sheets in Phase One to build a five-match home unbeaten streak, even while resting USMNT World Cup captain and 2026 MLS All-Star Tim Ream.

"Whenever we're doing defensive work, we're mixing the center-halves, we're mixing the fullbacks, we're mixing the goalkeepers, so they get used to each other," explained Smith. "There's good chemistry between them as well. They all want to push each other. They all want to get the starting shirt as well.

"Competition's really good for the team to press forward."

The victory puts Charlotte in an advantageous position to reach the tournament quarterfinals with six points through two games.

Currently sitting atop the MLS Leagues Cup table on goal difference (+5), The Crown will aim for three wins from three in their final Phase One match against Pachuca on Tuesday (7:30 pm ET | Apple TV).

"We went into the first game wanting to win it and we made some changes from the game against Chicago," said Smith. "We've made some changes again tonight in the back four. We've made changes at halftime and in the second half.

"So we're using the squad to try and win games and we'll try that again on Tuesday."
