If there’s one opponent that’s brought out the best in Inter Miami CF during the Lionel Messi era, it’s Nashville SC.

From their title-clinching win in Leagues Cup 2023 to their Round One Best-of-3 series victory in the Audi 2025 MLS Cup Playoffs en route to their MLS Cup triumph, Miami have achieved some of their greatest successes at Nashville's expense.

Will the Herons continue this trend in the 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup? We'll soon find out, beginning with Wednesday night’s Round-of-16 opener at GEODIS Park (7:30 pm ET | FS2, TUDN).

“Clearly, they’re an opponent that’s looking for revenge,” Miami head coach Javier Mascherano said before Leg 1 in Nashville.

“We have to be especially aware of that. We’re going to face an opponent with a thirst for revenge, sporting revenge.”

That may be an understatement.

Miami have dominated Nashville since Messi’s transformative summer 2023 arrival, posting an 8W-1L-2D record across all competitions. The legendary Argentine No. 10 has been just as devastating, scoring 15 goals in 10 games against the Music City club.

Should Messi make it 16 on Wednesday, he’d reach another milestone by scoring the 900th goal of his iconic career.

“To be able to reach 900 goals is something crazy, something incredible from a player like no other,” Mascherano said of Messi’s latest chase for glory.

“… Hopefully we can help him as a team tomorrow to get to 900 tomorrow, or even surpass that.”

However, Mascherano isn’t expecting an easy outing against a side that he considers much improved from the one Miami topped 4-0 last November to clinch a berth in the 2025 Eastern Conference Semifinals.

"You can learn lessons from history, but what I'd also say is history doesn't necessarily dictate what's gonna happen in the future," said Nashville head coach B.J. Callaghan, who's guided the club to an undefeated 4W-0L-1D record (all competitions) through their first five games of 2026.

"We're a different team this year; they're a different team this year. And so for us, we think we've been able to improve in certain areas with the group."

Most importantly, Nashville enhanced their attack by signing Cristian Espinoza via free agency. The Argentine winger and two-time MLS All-Star spent the past seven seasons with the San Jose Earthquakes.

Then, there are fellow star Designated Players Sam Surridge and Hany Mukhtar. Their chemistry remains ever-dangerous after leading Nashville to the 2025 US Open Cup title.

"I think there's an opportunity there to compete against the MLS Cup champions," said Callaghan.

As defending MLS Cup champions, Miami enter Wednesday's showdown as favorites of a series they’re hoping can catapult them to their first CCC title.

But it's only half the job, as Leg 2 awaits on March 18 at Inter Miami CF Stadium. The aggregate winner advances to meet the Philadelphia Union or Club América in the quarterfinals.

"Clearly, the Champions \[Cup\], of the competitions the club normally plays in, is the one we’re missing. And it’s something we all want,” said Mascherano.

“But what we can’t allow to happen is to let it become an obsession. When you obsess over something, you normally make a mistake.”
