MLS is taking a short break while a brief tournament between national soccer teams unfolds from June 11 to July 19 across the United States, Canada and Mexico.

Don't worry, though.

There are still plenty of MLS storylines to track while we wait for the 2026 season to return.

We’ll go ahead and get the obvious out of the way: Lionel Messi and reigning World Cup champions Argentina are going to give this one last (probably) go.

Messi has been, yet again, the best player in MLS this year. The back-to-back Landon Donovan MLS MVP has 12 goals and eight assists for the Herons through 14 matches.

However, he pulled up with a hamstring injury in his most recent MLS match and trained on his own during Argentina’s first training session in the US. He may not be 100% at the start of his record sixth World Cup. Still, he’s got plenty of time to get right before Argentina’s most important matches.

Can he and his Inter Miami teammate, Rodrigo De Paul, power a team that’s largely running back the same roster from 2022 and aiming to become the first repeat World Cup winners since the 1962 Brazil team?

Son Heung-Min is a living legend in South Korea, perhaps Asia's most popular athlete alongside MLB star Shohei Ohtani.

He'll soon play at his fourth World Cup and is his country's most-capped player with 145 matches. The LAFC forward can also become the Taegeuk Warriors' all-time leading scorer. He has scored 56 international goals, just two behind Cha Bum-Kun (58).

Life won't be easy in Group A alongside co-hosts Mexico, South Africa and Czechia. But with Son sporting the captain's armband and a strong supporting cast, South Korea will dream big.

Since arriving in MLS, Mbekezeli Mbokazi has shown flashes of talent that have made him one of the league’s most exciting young players and a regular starter for South Africa since the summer of 2025.

Even with South Africa facing steep odds, this feels like a moment where the Chicago Fire FC center back could catch the attention of teams around the world.

In a group with Mexico, Czechia and South Korea, a few points aren’t out of the question, especially if Mbokazi can showcase the speed and defensive instincts that have made him a First XI MLS All-Star selection.

Cape Verde are one of the tournament’s great stories. At the time they qualified, the African archipelago was the smallest-ever country to make the World Cup. Curaçao have that crown now, but Cape Verde are still serious underdogs.

Columbus Crew defender Steven Moreira, San Diego FC goalkeeper CJ Dos Santos and company will give everything to pull off an upset or two, though.

Expect Moreira to start somewhere along the back line – probably at right back – for the Blue Sharks as they go up against a group of Spain, Uruguay and Saudi Arabia.

Haiti are facing an uphill battle in a group that features Brazil, Morocco and Scotland. But they’re not going to go down without a fight.

Philadelphia Union midfielder Danley Jean Jacques will play a key role as they look to shock their groupmates. Obviously, he’ll at least be hoping for better results than what he’s gotten with the Union this year, but it feels pretty safe to say that hasn’t been his fault. He’s a very effective defensive midfielder on his day.

In addition to Jean Jacques, Toronto FC forward Derrick Etienne Jr. and FC Dallas forward Louicius Deedson are potential contributors for Les Grenadiers.

FC Dallas striker Petar Musa pushed his way onto the Croatia roster by sheer force of will.

He arrived in MLS in 2024 and hasn’t stopped scoring since. He scored 16 times that year, 18 times the next, and then went nuclear in 2026. He has 12 goals in 12 starts this year and is chasing the league's Golden Boot presented by Audi.

It’s not clear yet exactly how big a role he’ll play for Croatia (same for Orlando winger Marco Pašalić), but he did start their friendly against Belgium earlier this week.

It looks like New York City FC's Matt Freese and Orlando City's Maxime Crépeau are the No. 1s for the United States and Canada, respectively.

Both are bound to face a healthy amount of shots against the tournament’s steepest competition. They haven’t quite been in their best form in 2026, but both have outstanding, match-altering performances in them when they’re hot.

Now’s the time.

To go broader, the United States and Canada will both be looking for key performances from their MLS players.

On the USMNT side, Charlotte's Tim Ream will be under pressure as USMNT captain and likely a starting center back in Mauricio Pochettino’s back three. He’ll mostly be tasked with playing progressive and line-breaking passes, but there are questions about his speed in transition defense at 38 years old. He’ll play a key role in deciding whether the USMNT live up to expectations in Group D alongside Australia, Paraguay and Türkiye.

Meanwhile, in midfield, the USMNT will need contributions from Vancouver’s Sebastian Berhalter and Seattle’s Cristian Roldan. With only four central midfielders on the roster, both will likely get meaningful minutes.

For Canada, Toronto FC fullback Richie Laryea and LAFC midfielder Stephen Eustáquio will be key contributors. Eustáquio is the vice-captain for Canada and will be a major factor in whether Canada can win a winnable Group B. Canada are up against Switzerland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Qatar.

Miguel Almirón's return to Atlanta hasn’t gone as planned. But you can still expect him to start every time out for Paraguay. You can also expect minutes from midfielder Matías Galarza, who joined the Five Stripes on loan for the first half of the year from River Plate. And, on top of that, you can expect Júnior Alonso to start on the Paraguay back line.

If you don’t know Alonso, you might want to use the World Cup to get acquainted. He’s been heavily linked to a move to Atlanta United this summer and has even said outright that he’s on his way to MLS. He’ll play a major role for a Paraguay side that leans heavily on a "low-block and counter" style that could lead to a big upset or two in a group that includes the USMNT and Türkiye.

We'd be remiss not to mention that Paraguay, at their World Cup since 2010, also feature Vancouver's Andrés Cubas and Orlando's Braian Ojeda in midfield. Cubas, in particular, can be an absolute game-changer.

NYCFC midfielder Aiden O'Neill will likely be a starter for Australia. We wouldn't be surprised if Lucas Herrington, an 18-year-old center back from the Colorado Rapids, starts as well. NYCFC's Kai Trewin could also contribute meaningful minutes.

The Socceroos have their work cut out for them in Group D against the United States, Türkiye and Paraguay. They'll hope to make the knockout rounds for the third time in program history.

There are former MLS players all over this tournament.

The US and Canadian squads have obvious connections, but Colombia also feature former Crew striker Cucho Hernández. Curaçao have ex-Cincinnati striker Jurgen Locadia and former Crew keeper Eloy Room. Former Revs winger Esmir Bajraktarević is key for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ex-Chicago midfielder Brian Gutiérrez and ex-Sounder Obed Vargas are with Mexico. And former Whitecaps midfielder Pedro Vite is with Ecuador.

The list is longer than that, but you get the idea. This is your chance to remember some guys for a moment until the league returns.
