Seattle Sounders FC and LA Galaxy were eliminated from the 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup on Wednesday night, falling on aggregate to LIGA MX opposition in the quarterfinals.

They were unable to join LAFC and Nashville SC, who advanced to the semifinals Tuesday evening.

The continental tournament grants a spot in the 2029 FIFA Club World Cup and the 2026 FIFA Intercontinental Cup. The single-match final will be held on May 30.

Despite the Sounders earning a 3-1 victory in Leg 2 at Lumen Field, Tigres advanced to the semifinals 3-3 on aggregate via the away goals tiebreaker.

The LIGA MX giants will take on Nashville SC in the next round.

After a 2-0 defeat in Mexico last week, Seattle got off to a quick start in the 11th minute when Albert Rúsnak snuck through Tigres' attempted offside trap to lash home the opener.

The visitors equalized with a decisive away goal just past the half-hour mark via Joaquim Henrique's towering header.

Seattle began the comeback less than five minutes into the second half as Danny Musovski guided home the game-winner.

Rúsnak leveled the tie on aggregate in the 82nd minute courtesy of a strike from distance that completed his brace. However, Tigres held on to advance via the away goals tiebreaker.

11' - SEA - Albert Rúsnak | WATCH

31' - TIG - Joaquim Henrique | WATCH

49' - SEA - Danny Musovski | WATCH

82' - SEA - Albert Rúsnak | WATCH

Lineups

The LA Galaxy fell 3-0 at Dignity Health Sports Park, helping Toluca advance to the semifinals 7-2 on aggregate.

The back-to-back LIGA MX champions will face LAFC in the semifinals later this month.

Following a 4-2 victory in Mexico last week, Toluca raced ahead inside the opening 10 minutes courtesy of a long-range scorcher from Jesús Gallardo.

After the break, Paulinho hit twice on the counterattack within six minutes, culminating in a deftly chipped finish for his fifth goal of the series.

Paulinho's brace brought him level with Galaxy winger Gabriel Pec atop the CCC goalscoring charts (six goals) this season.

10' - TOL - Jesús Gallardo | WATCH

58' - TOL - Paulinho | WATCH

64' - TOL - Paulinho | WATCH

Lineups
