United States head coach Mauricio Pochettino has named his 26-man roster for the 2026 FIFA World Cup, calling up eight MLS players for the momentous tournament on home soil.

Chris Brady - Chicago Fire FC

Matt Freese - New York City FC

Matt Turner - New England Revolution

Max Arfsten - Columbus Crew

Sergiño Dest - PSV

Alex Freeman - Villarreal

Mark McKenzie - Toulouse

Tim Ream - Charlotte FC

Chris Richards - Crystal Palace

Antonee Robinson - Fulham

Miles Robinson - FC Cincinnati

Joe Scally - Borussia Mönchengladbach

Auston Trusty - Celtic

Tyler Adams - AFC Bournemouth

Sebastian Berhalter - Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Weston McKennie - Juventus

Gio Reyna - Borussia Mönchengladbach

Cristian Roldan - Seattle Sounders FC

Malik Tillman - Bayer Leverkusen

Brenden Aaronson - Leeds United

Folarin Balogun - AS Monaco

Ricardo Pepi - PSV

Christian Pulisic - AC Milan

Tim Weah - Marseille

Haji Wright - Coventry City

Alex Zendejas - Club América

MLS call-ups are bolded above.

June 12: USA vs. Paraguay, 9 pm ET | Los Angeles, California

June 19: USA vs. Australia, 3 pm ET | Seattle, Washington

June 25: USA vs. Türkiye, 10 pm ET | Los Angeles, California

The 2026 World Cup has expanded from the usual 32 nations to 48 total. The top two teams advance from each group, and the top eight third-place finishers also make the knockout phase (Round of 32).

The tournament, which is co-hosted by the United States, Mexico and Canada, spans from June 11 to July 19.

All three goalkeepers feature in MLS, with Matt Freese (NYCFC) and Matt Turner (New England) likely vying for the starting role. Chris Brady (Chicago) rounds out the trio.

Max Arfsten (Columbus) adds pace and creativity out wide, while center backs Tim Ream (Charlotte) and Miles Robinson (Cincinnati) have combined to play nearly 120 times for the USMNT.

Sebastian Berhalter (Vancouver) and Cristian Roldan (Seattle), both of whom made the 2025 MLS Best XI, bring experience to the midfield.

The squad features nine MLS homegrown products currently playing abroad, plus another four who developed in MLS academies before heading to Europe.

Brenden Aaronson, Mark McKenzie and Auston Trusty are former Philadelphia Union homegrown stars.

Chris Richards, Ricardo Pepi and Alex Zendejas broke through as FC Dallas homegrowns.

Tyler Adams did the same with Red Bull New York, Alex Freeman rose to stardom at Orlando City, and Joe Scally was one of NYCFC's first homegrown signings.

Eight players compete in MLS for eight different clubs, amounting to 31% of Pochettino's team.

Of the 26 players named, another 13 (50%) are either MLS homegrown products or players who spent time in an MLS academy.

Combined, those 21 players account for 81% of the USMNT's World Cup squad.

This will be the USMNT's 12th World Cup appearance and first under Pochettino, who managed some of Europe's top clubs before taking over in September 2024.

In the modern era, the Yanks' best-ever World Cup finish came in 2002. They made the quarterfinals before losing to Germany.

This is the second time the United States have hosted the men's World Cup. The previous instance came in 1994, helping lay the groundwork for MLS's inaugural season in 1996.
