Stars helped deliver stoppage-time drama and world-class goals during Matchday 22, earning them spots on the Team of the Matchday presented by Audi.

Starters: James Pantemis (POR) - Édier Ocampo (VAN), Dante Polvara (STL), Andy Nájar (NSH) - Pep Biel (CLT), Hany Mukhtar (NSH), Joaquín Pereyra (MIN), Miguel Almirón (ATL) - Kelvin Yeboah (MIN), Brian White (VAN), Antoine Griezmann (ORL)

Coach: Yoann Damet (STL)

Bench: Andrew Thomas (SEA), Maya Yoshida (LA), James Sands (NYC), Kyle Duncan (MIN), Gabriel Pirani (SD), Cavan Sullivan (PHI), Peyton Miller (NE), Denis Bouanga (LAFC), Josh Sargent (TOR)

French superstar Antoine Griezmann delivered his first multi-goal game since joining Orlando City, supplying a second-half brace to spur the Lions' 2-1 comeback victory over Real Salt Lake.

Nashville SC provided even more late drama at GEODIS Park as Hany Mukhtar (1g/1a) assisted a 93rd-minute equalizer, setting the stage for Andy Nájar to complete a 3-2 comeback win over the Columbus Crew with a stunning 95th-minute strike.

Not to be overshadowed by a baby pitch invader in San Jose, Joaquín Pereyra (1g/2a) submitted his bid for AT&T MLS Goal of the Year with a sensational rabona before connecting with Kelvin Yeboah to complete the striker's brace in a 5-1 rout of the Earthquakes.

Vancouver Whitecaps FC thrashed their opponents on Saturday night, winning 5-0 against FC Dallas. Édier Ocampo (1g/1a) set up the first goal of Brian White's brace to snatch back the top spot in the Western Conference with aplomb.

Arguably the hottest team in MLS, St. Louis CITY SC extended their league unbeaten streak to 11 games, knocking Houston Dynamo FC off the top of the table in a 2-1 win at Energizer Park. Dante Polvara provided the late winner for Yoann Damet's side.

Charlotte FC continue to make Bank of America Stadium a fortress, cruising to a 3-1 victory over D.C. United that included Pep Biel's goal and assist.

Atlanta United have also found form recently, pushing their winning streak to three matches via a 2-1 victory over Sporting Kansas City that saw Miguel Almirón provide two assists.

Finally, James Pantemis secured a valuable road point for the Portland Timbers by racking up 10 saves in a 1-1 draw against LAFC.
