Two sides looking to climb their respective conference tables clash when Atlanta United host Sporting Kansas City for Matchday 22's Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4x5V542" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

<a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/mls-regular-season/2026/matches/atlvsskc-08-23-2026/" target="_blank">Sunday, Aug. 23</a> | 7 pm ET/4 pm PT

Mercedes-Benz Stadium | Atlanta, Georgia

Record

15th in Eastern Conference

18 points (5W-12L-3D)

Last game

Atlanta United are on a roll as of late, with 40 percent of their wins this season having come in the last week. Beginning with a 2-1 victory over Red Bull New York on Saturday, the Five Stripes started a mini win streak by beating Minnesota United FC, 2-1, at Allianz Field on Wednesday.

Defender Tomás Jacob opened the scoring against the Loons before midfielder Tristan Muyumba – who scored in both victories – netted the game-winner.

Players to watch

Miguel Almirón: A club legend ranking second all-time in goals (31) and third in assists (29), Almirón was key in Paraguay's historic run to the Round of 16 at the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Alexey Miranchuk: Atlanta's leading goal contributor with 5g/7a, the Russian international has improved year-on-year since joining MLS in 2024.

Tristan Muyumba: In fantastic form, the French midfielder has scored in each of his last three matches, including winning MLS Goal of the Matchday in Matchday 20.

Cooper Sanchez: The 18-year-old US youth international is enjoying a breakout year in midfield, producing four assists in 17 starts this season.

Need to know

Atlanta have been among the busiest teams in the summer transfer market, aiming to revitalize the squad with the typical ambition they've become known for.

While transferring Saba Lobjanidze to Real Salt Lake and loaning Emmanuel Latte Lath to Union Berlin, the Five Stripes brought in Paraguayan World Cup defender Júnior Alonso, Chilean defender Paulo Díaz and Uruguayan youth international midfielder Mauricio Amaro.

Don't expect the business to stop there, however, as Atlanta have been linked with multiple big-name strikers over recent weeks, including Swiss World Cup striker Breel Embolo.

Standings

15th in Western Conference

15 points (4W-13L-3D)

Last game

Sporting Kansas City snapped a three-game losing streak on Wednesday, earning a 1-1 draw against high-flying rivals St. Louis CITY SC.

Midfielder Calvin Harris scored the equalizer on a swift counterattack from the hosts.

Players to watch

Dejan Joveljić: The Serbian international paces the SKC attack, leading the team in goals (eight) and goal contributions (11).

Calvin Harris: Kansas City's top provider, Harris has racked up five assists to go along with his three goals this season.

Lasse Berg Johnsen: A Norwegian international, Berg Johnsen has recorded 1g/4a in his first MLS season after arriving from Malmö.

Capita: Capable of the sensational, the MLS newcomer's second goal this season was a memorable long-range stunner.

Need to know

Sporting Kansas City made it clear that 2026 is a rebuilding year for the club.

They've recently put their money where their mouth is by smashing their club-record transfer fee to acquire Brazilian winger André Luiz from Greek powerhouse Olympiacos for a reported $18 million.

More major moves could be on the way as well, as the front office searches for a new No. 10 to replace the playmaking of former DP midfielder Manu García after terminating his contract.

Aided by a strong home-field advantage and two straight wins, Atlanta have cornered 59% of the market compared to SKC's 21%.

Market insights shared are current as of Thursday, Aug. 20 at 1 pm ET.
