After last weekend's historic four-goal performance, Lionel Messi takes center stage when Inter Miami CF host Southern rivals Atlanta United on Saturday night.

Record

Last game

The Herons were winless in four straight MLS matches heading into their Matchday 23 clash with CF Montréal, then righted the ship with an astonishing 7-1 home victory.

Lionel Messi earned Player of the Matchday honors with a stunning 4g/1a night that gave him the Golden Boot presented by Audi lead, all while legendary Brazilian midfielder Casemiro scored his first goal for the club.

Players to watch

Need to know

It's a new dawn for Inter Miami, who announced the hiring of Kily González as the club's head coach last week. He will replace interim manager Guillermo Hoyos.

When the Argentine formally takes over, all eyes will be on Miami looking to win their second straight MLS Cup title – a feat no team has accomplished since the 2011-12 LA Galaxy.

To close the summer transfer window, Miami completed deals for Brazilian forward Riquelme Fillipi and Paraguayan midfielder Matías Galarza. Meanwhile, homegrowns Noah Allen (to Chicago Fire FC) and David Ruíz (to Red Bull New York) were loaned out.

Record

Last game

After a three-match winning streak helped them leap out of last place in the Eastern Conference, Atlanta were handed a 2-0 home defeat against Southern rivals Charlotte FC.

Players to watch

Need to know

One month ago, Atlanta sat bottom of the Eastern Conference and looked set to miss the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs for a second consecutive season.

Now, as August turns to September, the vibes around the Five Stripes have shifted. With three wins in their last four, Atlanta have vaulted themselves back into the playoff picture, sitting only four points behind ninth-place Orlando City.

That, plus the arrival of Embolo, has fans believing they can keep climbing the table.

Download Polymarket: $50 Bonus with code MLS50

With nearly 76% of the market, Inter Miami are strongly favored to win at home. Atlanta United's upset hopes are earning just 12% of the market.

Market insights shared are current as of Friday, Sept. 4 at 9 am ET.
