Don’t let this week’s Argentina news fool you: Lionel Messi isn't going anywhere from Inter Miami CF.

In fact, the legendary No. 10 achieved yet another MLS milestone with the Herons in his first game since announcing his international retirement.

With two assists in Saturday night’s 2-2 home draw against Atlanta United, Messi reached 30 goal contributions (18g/12a) for the season. He’s the first player in league history to reach that mark in three different campaigns.

Messi to Casemiro for the @InterMiamiCF opener. Two-straight games with a goal for Casemiro. 👏 pic.twitter.com/NCJkMj5cZg

Messi passed a host of big-name players, including LAFC's all-time leading scorer Denis Bouanga and FC Cincinnati Best XI midfielder Evander, to add to his growing list of MLS records.

It was his corner kick that got the scoring started against Atlanta. A 32nd-minute outswinger found the head of Casemiro, who nodded it home for his second goal in two games.

Later in the first half, he picked up a secondary assist on Luis Suárez’s go-ahead goal, placing a lovely ball through pressure to Telasco Segovia.

Messi’s world-class production has put him in pole position for a third straight Landon Donovan MLS MVP award. He all but cinched another season of 30 goal contributions in last week’s historic 7-1 win over CF Montréal, when he put up four goals and an assist.

Crazy ending between @InterMiamiCF and @ATLUTD 🤯 pic.twitter.com/aOrDbZUg0Z

Despite Messi’s continued elite form, which included a run to the 2026 FIFA World Cup final over the summer in his Argentina farewell, Atlanta secured a much-needed point through new Designated Player Breel Embolo.

The Swiss international, on his Five Stripes debut, potted a late penalty kick equalizer, and Atlanta survived Miami’s last-ditch attempts at an equalizer.

The draw is a setback for Miami as they look to chase down Eastern Conference and Supporters' Shield-leading Nashville SC, who sit 10 points ahead.

The defending MLS Cup presented by Audi champions visit Robert Lewandowski and Chicago Fire FC on Wednesday (8:30 pm ET | Apple TV) before a blockbuster clash against Nashville on Saturday (7:30 pm ET | Apple TV).
