MLS and LIGA MX have announced their rosters for the 2026 MLS All-Star Skills Challenge presented by AT&T, which will feature several changes to the competition's format.

When: Tuesday, July 28 - 7:30 pm ET

Where: Truist Field - Charlotte, North Carolina

Watch: <a href="https://soc.cr/4p9dwl8" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

<a href="https://www.ticketmaster.com/2026-mls-skills-challenge-presented-by-charlotte-north-carolina-07-28-2026/event/2D00646C9647BFEB?CAMEFROM=CFC_MLG_WEB_EDITORIAL_2026SKILLS" target="_blank">Purchase tickets</a>

Full event rundown: Challenge details, participants, timing and more.

Maxime Crépeau (GK) - Orlando City

Evander (M) - FC Cincinnati

Matt Freese (GK) - New York City FC

Carles Gil (M) - New England Revolution

Zavier Gozo (M) - Real Salt Lake

Son Heung-Min (F) - LAFC

Thomas Müller (M) - Vancouver Whitecaps FC

Petar Musa (F) - FC Dallas

Tim Ream (D) - Charlotte FC

The MLS All-Star Skills Challenge roster includes players from nine different teams across the league.

Two MLS NEXT Pro goalkeepers join the participants for Goalie Wars presented by Old Spice:

Pedro Cruz (GK) - Houston Dynamo 2

Will Mackay (GK) - Huntsville City FC

Further, North Texas SC midfielder Edouard Nys will compete in the Crossbar Challenge presented by Gillette. He is the first MLS NEXT Pro outfield player to be part of Skills Challenge.

Juan Brunetta (M) - Tigres UANL

Fernando Gorriarán (M) - Tigres UANL

Elías Montiel (M) - CF Pachuca

Carlos Moreno (GK) - CF Pachuca

José Paradela (M) - Cruz Azul

Federico Pereira (D) - Toluca CF

Carlos Rodríguez (M) - Cruz Azul

Javier Ruiz (M) - Club Necaxa

The LIGA MX All-Star Skills Challenge roster is highlighted by longtime Tigres standouts Juan Brunetta and Fernando Gorriarán, as well as Cruz Azul's José Paradela and Carlos Rodríguez.

Additionally, four celebrity participants will compete alongside the MLS and LIGA MX All-Stars in the Skills Challenge:

Danny Ramírez: American actor and star of "Captain America: Brave New World."

Céline Dept: Belgian influencer active on TikTok and YouTube, and the first Belgian to reach 10 million subscribers on YouTube.

FaZe Rug: Massively successful American YouTuber, vlogger and content creator.

Ochocinco: Former NFL star wide receiver turned media personality, and longtime MLS fan.

New this year, each challenge will crown its own champion, marking a shift from the traditional MLS versus opponent format used in previous years.

In addition to standout players from MLS and LIGA MX, the competition will feature participation from MLS NEXT Pro and celebrity participants.

The event will still deliver a team rivalry moment, as MLS and LIGA MX face off in a high-energy relay to close out the night.

All-Star Shooting Challenge – Presented by AT&T

Players will kick off the night by aiming at multiple targets, competing to rack up as many points as possible within 60 seconds. The highest score takes the win.

All-Star Goalie Wars – Presented by Old Spice

A high-intensity battle between goalkeepers, who will kick, drop-kick, and throw to score on their opponent while defending their own goal.

All-Star Crossbar Challenge – Presented by Gillette

A fan-favorite returns with a new twist as players compete head-to-head, attempting to strike the crossbar from the top of the 18-yard box, testing technique, speed and touch.

All-Star Passing Challenge – Presented by Dawn

In this head-to-head challenge, targets are positioned across the pitch. Players must demonstrate elite distribution and pinpoint accuracy. The fastest time determines the winner.

MLS vs. LIGA MX Relay Challenge – Presented by AT&T

New this year, the competition culminates in a thrilling team relay, blending elements from each challenge as MLS and LIGA MX stars go head-to-head in a timed format to determine ultimate bragging rights.
