Matchday 20 is in the books.

What did we learn? Did the games confirm what we already knew, or did they change the complexion of the league?

Let’s dive into some key takeaways from another weekend of MLS action.

Down 2-0 at halftime away to New York City FC, Sunday evening was supposed to be where the Philadelphia Union’s hot streak came to an end. Then, suddenly, it wasn’t. The Union clawed their way back into the match to earn a 3-2 win, continuing their perfect return to league play since the World Cup break.

Philadelphia’s four wins from four regular season games across July and August haven’t all come easily. In fact, there’s been more scratching and clawing than not. But along the way? Philadelphia’s attack has reached an entirely new level. Three of those four victories have seen the Union notch three goals and at least two expected goals, per FotMob. Chances are flying, in no small part due to Kai Wagner’s return from England to his left back role.

The league’s best chance-creating left back (and perhaps the best in MLS history outside of Jordi Alba), Wagner has brought his usual quality service to the table. It’s not just Wagner, though, who’s providing a lift. It’s also Cavan Sullivan. The 16-year-old has been entrusted by interim manager Ryan Richter to be an every-game starter — and that decision has paid off in a major way. The youngest Sullivan brother has one goal and three assists in his last two games across all competitions, leading a pair of victories.

With their new recipe, the once-Wooden Spoon favorites are now only five points outside the playoff field out East. Don’t rule out their current surge lasting a while longer.

En route to topping Seattle on Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire and capturing the Cascadia Cup crown with a 2-0 victory at Lumen Field, the Whitecaps reminded everyone of their status as the best team in the Western Conference.

On one hand, the table shows evidence of that truth: the ‘Caps hold a two-point lead in first place over the Houston Dynamo and enjoy a game in hand over their Texas foes. On the other hand, all it takes is watching a bit of tape on Vancouver to see just how threatening they are in every phase of play. While Sebastian Berhalter's transfer to Middlesbrough reduces the Whitecaps’ pure threat level on set pieces, there simply is no team in the league that matches their versatility.

That versatility shows itself in the sheer number of ways that Jesper Sørensen’s team can hurt opponents. The Sounders were reminded of that fact this past weekend, when Vancouver both punished them in transition and controlled the game with possession. It also shows itself in a squad that seems to have boundless depth.

Against Seattle, Emmanuel Sabbi started up top in place of Brian White. He didn’t just keep White’s seat warm for him, though. No, Sabbi provided the crucial go-ahead assist to teenage attacker Rayan Elloumi in the second half on the back of some lovely buildup.

With an elite roster, the best xG differential in MLS per American Soccer Analysis, and continually impressive on-field showings, the ‘Caps truly are the class of the West.

No Marcel Hartel? No problem for St. Louis CITY SC.

Just days after their highest-performing outfielder returned to Germany, St. Louis had the unenviable task of traveling to the West Coast to take on the San Jose Earthquakes. And yet, even without Hartel, St. Louis cruised to an impressive 3-1 victory, extending their unbeaten run across both MLS and US Open Cup play to 10 games.

Now all the way up to sixth in the Western Conference, it’s clear that St. Louis CITY’s success is built upon more than a singular Designated Player. Of course, seeing new DP Carlo Holse debut against the Quakes was a positive sign, and it’s possible the club could sign a player with the DP spot created by Hartel’s exit before next month’s deadline day. But that St. Louis could prevail on the road down a star without missing a beat is truly telling. They were dominant against San Jose, grabbing two unanswered goals in the first half while forcing Roman Bürki to be largely bored in his own box.

St. Louis’ squad doesn’t overwhelm you with star power, but they continue to overwhelm their opponents. According to American Soccer Analysis, only Vancouver Whitecaps FC, Inter Miami CF, and Chicago Fire FC have a better xG differential than St. Louis. This team is for real, folks, and Saturday was the latest data point.

Really, ever since they fell to Toluca in the Concacaf Champions Cup back in March, San Diego had to endure some tough sledding.

For a team that finished atop the West in their first and only season prior to 2026, enduring hardship was something of a new feeling for the sophomore outfit. But between red cards, sloppy concessions, and an attack missing a star contributor ever since Chucky Lozano and the club fell out last fall, San Diego FC had seemed to take a step back. They tumbled down the Western Conference and entered the World Cup break with just one win in their last 13 games across all competitions.

But now? Well, it sure seems like the midseason intermission did San Diego a world of good. Since returning to play in July, San Diego have gone 4W-2L-1D across MLS and Leagues Cup play, most recently toppling LAFC, 1-0, on the road.

Though they still managed to have a player sent off thanks to Anders Dreyer taking off his jersey after converting the game-winning penalty before putting in a late tackle while trying to help protect a narrow lead, Saturday’s showing was an impressively balanced one. The backline was close to mistake-free, with Manu Duah shining as <a href="https://x.com/sandiegofc/status/2089060445785407793" target="_blank">brightly</a> as he did in 2025. Even a rotated midfield did well to limit costly turnovers against their transition-hungry hosts.

Add in the debut of new DP left winger Elias Achouri and it was a night to remember for San Diego, who are suddenly just one point below the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs line.

Nashville SC bested Inter Miami on Saturday night by a 4-1 scoreline in what was perhaps the standout result of the regular season so far. The victory saw Nashville claim a five-point lead atop the Supporters’ Shield standings on 43 points, with Miami next in terms of raw points at 38. In terms of points per game, Nashville top the charts at 2.26 with Vancouver next on 2.06.

Few would have quibbled with Nashville’s status as a genuine trophy threat prior to this weekend’s victory over Miami. But after the game? The list of reasons to believe in Nashville only grew longer thanks to the performance of an improved attack.

With summer signing Elias Saad making his first league start for his new team since joining on loan from FC Augsburg in the Bundesliga, B.J. Callaghan’s team seemed to reach another level going forward. Saad, with his clever vision and movement, posted a pair of assists while providing crucial attacking balance on the left wing, opposing Cristian Espinoza and Andy Nájar.

It’s early days yet when it comes to Saad’s time in MLS, but the early returns couldn’t be better. That’s bad news for the rest of the contending pack.
