The opening week of Leagues Cup 2026 continues on Thursday with more marquee MLS vs. LIGA MX matchups, highlighted by Club América hosting San Diego FC at Estadio Azteca.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4hGSnwO" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

Thursday, Aug. 6 | 10 pm ET/7 pm PT

Estadio Azteca | Mexico City, Mexico

In Phase One, each team plays three matches against opponents from the opposite league. The top four clubs from each league-specific table advance to the quarterfinals.

The tournament champion will be crowned on Sept. 6. Additionally, the top three finishers qualify for the 2027 Concacaf Champions Cup.

<a href="https://www.leaguescup.com/tickets/" target="_blank">Leagues Cup tickets</a>

Standings

1st in LIGA MX Apertura

7 points (2W-0L-1D)

Last match

Club América are thriving in the early stages of the LIGA MX Apertura, most recently beating Santos Laguna, 3-0, to pace the standings in their first campaign under head coach Guillermo Almada.

Their undefeated start to the season also includes a 1-0 victory at Querétaro and a 1-1 draw at Atlante.

Players to watch

Brian Rodríguez: The former LAFC standout returned from injury against Santos Laguna, scoring two minutes into his season debut off the bench.

Henry Martín: Club América's longtime captain also scored over the weekend, ending a regular-season goalscoring drought that dated back to the 2025 Clausura.

Israel Reyes: The defender featured in four games for Mexico at the 2026 FIFA World Cup and played at last week's 2026 MLS All-Star Game presented by Chime.

Sebastián Cáceres: Alongside Rodríguez, the veteran defender represented Uruguay at the 2026 World Cup.

Need to know

FC Dallas product and USMNT 2026 World Cup veteran Alex Zendejas is ruled out with a right knee injury.

Club América are Mexico's most decorated team with a record 16 domestic titles, including a historic three-peat (Apertura 2023, Clausura 2024, Apertura 2024).

Standings

13th in MLS Western Conference

21 points (5W-7L-6D)

Last match

San Diego salvaged a 1-1 draw at Minnesota United FC last weekend. Star winger Anders Dreyer converted from the penalty spot midway through the second half to cancel out Tomás Chancalay's early opener.

The Chrome-and-Azul are undefeated in two matches, beating FC Dallas, 1-0, after returning from the World Cup break with a 1-0 loss at Colorado.

Players to watch

Anders Dreyer: The 2025 MLS Newcomer of the Year finished second only to Inter Miami CF icon Lionel Messi for Landon Donovan MLS MVP honors last season.

Marcus Ingvartsen: After an injury-shortened 2025, Ingvartsen is San Diego's top scorer this season with 11 goals.

Manu Duah: One of MLS's top-rated center backs, Duah has been the subject of multiple transfer rumors linking him to Europe.

Elias Achouri: San Diego's newest DP arrives from Danish Superliga powerhouse FC Copenhagen after representing Tunisia at the 2026 World Cup.

Need to know

After a historic 2025 expansion season, San Diego have hit a sophomore slump in Year Two under head coach Mikey Varas. The Chrome-and-Azul haven't won consecutive games since opening the 2026 season with three straight victories, dropping them outside of the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs picture.

However, that impressive start to 2026 also saw San Diego eliminate Pumas UNAM in Round One of the Concacaf Champions Cup – proving they have what it takes to beat LIGA MX opposition.
