Now that he’s made the United States’ 2026 FIFA World Cup roster, can Sebastian Berhalter crack the starting XI at this summer’s tournament?

The Vancouver Whitecaps FC midfielder made his case on Sunday, starting the USMNT’s 3-2 win over Senegal alongside Red Bull New York product Tyler Adams and earning heaps of praise from head coach Mauricio Pochettino.

"He can play two games in a row. He’s a monster," Pochettino told reporters post-match at Charlotte FC’s Bank of America Stadium. "He’s a monster, in the way of how professional he is.

"I think he deserved to be in the roster and today, \[I’m\] happy too with his performance."

Berhalter was one of three MLS-based players who started Sunday's friendly, alongside Charlotte defender Tim Ream and New England Revolution goalkeeper Matt Turner.

The 25-year-old was the only player not substituted at halftime, as he logged an energetic 76-minute shift before making way for FC Dallas product Alex Zendejas.

"He’s not 100%, he’s 200% professional, committed," Pochettino said.

"In a non-official game, an official game, with friends, in training – he’s always giving his best, always his 200 percent."

Berhalter harnessed that mentality to break into the USMNT picture last year amid a breakout season with the Whitecaps.

The Best XI honoree and All-Star selection helped guide the ‘Caps to the 2025 Concacaf Champions Cup and MLS Cup presented by Audi finals, as well as a fourth straight Canadian Championship title.

It’s been more of the same in 2026 for Berhalter, who has 6g/7a in 14 games as Vancouver lead the Western Conference standings at the World Cup break (32 points; 10W-2L-2D record).

"He’s the type of player who’s going to train, going to train, going to train," said Pochettino. "I mean, sometimes I have to say \[to him\], ‘Go inside,’ no?"

The USMNT have one more game to lock in their World Cup starting XI: Saturday against Germany at Chicago Fire FC's Soldier Field. Then, it's onto their Group D opener vs. Paraguay on June 12 in Los Angeles.

"For a coach, it’s always a pleasure to have a profile like him \[Berhalter\]," said Pochettino.
