Cavan Sullivan and the Philadelphia Union take their scorching form cross-country to face San Diego FC for Matchday 26's Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire clash.

<a href="https://soc.cr/3UYxbJp" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

Sunday, Sept. 13 | 9 pm ET/6 pm PT

Snapdragon Stadium | San Diego, California

Record

9th in Western Conference

30 points (8W-10L-6D)

Last game

San Diego dropped their second consecutive contest on Wednesday night, falling 3-2 to the San Jose Earthquakes.

Star winger Anders Dreyer found the back of the net, as did new signing Cédric Bakambu. Goalkeeper CJ Dos Santos was red-carded in the 81st minute, ensuring some rotation this weekend.

Players to watch

Anders Dreyer: The 2025 MLS Newcomer of the Year and two-time All-Star is once again San Diego's goal-contribution leader with 20 (9g/11a).

Elias Achouri: San Diego's latest DP signing, Achouri recently joined from Danish powerhouse FC Copenhagen and has recorded two goals in four starts.

Manu Duah: The Ghanaian youngster has been a constant in the Chrome-and-Azul backline, starting each of the 23 league matches he's been available for.

Cédric Bakambu: Bakambu just joined as a free agent following an illustrious European career. He also represented DR Congo at the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Need to know

Despite early-season struggles, San Diego have turned their season around and sit inside the Western Conference's playoff places.

The Chrome-and-Azul can't get too comfortable, however, as they're hanging onto the ninth and final spot in the West, with Real Salt Lake, Minnesota United FC and LA Galaxy all snapping at their heels just one point behind.

As San Diego aim to reach the postseason for a second consecutive year, expect Dreyer to spearhead a new forward trio that includes Achouri and Bakambu.

Record

8th in Eastern Conference

30 points (8W-10L-6D)

Last game

The Union continued their winning ways on Wednesday night, dominating 10-man FC Cincinnati in a 5-0 rout.

Bruno Damiani led the way with a hat trick, while Cavan Sullivan added three assists and Quinn Sullivan contributed 1g/2a.

Players to watch

Cavan Sullivan: The 16-year-old homegrown phenom is developing into a star right in front of fans' eyes, with 4g/10a in league play this season.

Neil Pierre: The 18-year-old center back has played a key role for the Union backline in recent months, while also adding 4g/1a on the offensive end.

Milan Iloski: The forward has been Philadelphia's star man this season, leading the team with 18 goal contributions (12g/6a).

Quinn Sullivan: Cavan's older brother recently returned from a torn ACL he suffered in July 2025 and has added a spark to the Union attack, with 1g/3a in nine games.

Need to know

Only St. Louis CITY SC have been hotter than Philadelphia as of late, as the Union have embarked on a nine-game unbeaten run (7W-0L-2D) since returning from the World Cup. The streak, recorded entirely under interim head coach Ryan Richter, has seen them vault from last in the East into the playoff places.

Paramount to their incredible midseason turnaround has been emerging superstar Cavan Sullivan. The young midfielder – who is reportedly set to sign for European giants Manchester City when he turns 18 – is in the midst of a breakout campaign, with 7g/14a across all competitions, including a goal contribution in each of his last six games.

This Sunday Night Soccer matchup is essentially a toss-up, with Philadelphia entering as slight favorites (39%) compared to 37% for San Diego.

Market insights shared are current as of Thursday, Sept. 10 at 2 pm ET.
