Lionel Messi provided two late assists as Argentina staged a dramatic comeback to defeat England, 2-1, in Wednesday's instant classic 2026 FIFA World Cup semifinal at Atlanta Stadium, sending the defending champions through to the tournament final.

The stunning result sets up a blockbuster final matchup with Spain on Sunday at New York/New Jersey Stadium, where Argentina will look to become the first nation to win back-to-back World Cups since Brazil in 1958 and 1962.

Argentina trailed until late in the match after Anthony Gordon opened the scoring for England 10 minutes into the second half. But Messi took over late, providing the assists on both Enzo Fernández's equalizer and Lautaro Martínez's 92nd-minute game-winner.

After a hard-fought but scoreless first half, England finally broke the deadlock in the 55th minute, as Morgan Rogers delivered a pinpoint cross into the box for Gordon to finish from close range.

Argentina pushed relentlessly for an equalizer, coming agonizingly close twice as England goalkeeper Jordan Pickford produced a spectacular diving save to deny Nicolás González's close-range header in the 69th minute. Alexis Mac Allister then headed Rodrigo De Paul's cross off the post seven minutes later.

The breakthrough finally arrived in the 85th minute off a short corner routine. Messi was the assist provider, finding Fernández at the top of the box, where the midfielder unleashed a spectacular long-range strike past Pickford.

La Albiceleste then completed the dramatic comeback in second-half stoppage time. Mac Allister rattled the post for the second time on the night, but Messi tracked down the rebound and lofted a cross into the box for Martínez, who headed home the game-winning goal.

55' - ENG - Anthony Gordon | WATCH

85' - ARG - Enzo Fernández | WATCH

90'+2 - ARG - Lautaro Martínez | WATCH

THE BIG PICTURE: Argentina’s remarkable never-say-die run through the tournament continues, as the defending champions went from five minutes away from elimination to booking a second straight World Cup final appearance. Now, Inter Miami CF stars Messi and De Paul will face Spain with a chance to make history and lead La Albiceleste to the first back-to-back World Cup titles in more than six decades.

MOMENT OF THE MATCH: The contest appeared destined for extra time, but Messi and Martínez ensured that wouldn’t be the case, combining for this dramatic stoppage-time winner.

MAN OF THE MATCH: Is there any other choice? Already on a torrid scoring pace with a tournament-leading eight goals, Messi showed his class as a facilitator when Argentina needed it most with his pair of late assists.

ARG: Sunday, July 19 vs. Spain | 3 pm ET | FIFA World Cup Final

ENG: Saturday, July 18 vs. France | 5 pm ET | FIFA World Cup Third Place Match
