NASHVILLE, Tenn. – Nashville SC's 2026 MLS season is becoming the stuff of legend.

The Coyotes are off to the best 21-game start in <a href="https://twitter.com/MLS/status/2091358244769870305?s=20" target="_blank">league history</a>, reaching an unprecedented 49 points at this stage of the season thanks to Saturday's epic 3-2 comeback win over the Columbus Crew at GEODIS Park.

Second-half stoppage-time goals from Reed Baker-Whiting (93') and Andy Nájar (95') completed the miracle rally that moved Nashville nine points clear atop the Supporters' Shield standings.

“I'm really proud of the group and really proud of the mentality of the team," said head coach B.J. Callaghan. "The best part of tonight for me was after goal two, we had Sam Surridge digging the ball out of the goal and running up to try and get goal number three.

"And the contributions from the guys that came off the bench, they knew what they needed to do in the game and really elevated the play."

Since returning from the 2026 FIFA World Cup break, the 'Yotes have maintained their Shield-leading form, with a record of 5W-1L-1D in their return to play.

Even more important has been their form at GEODIS Park, going unbeaten at home in the regular season (10W-0L-1D) and outscoring opponents 32-12 on home turf.

"Tonight is a night where you really see the value of the fans and the crowd," said Callaghan. "When it goes 2-1 \[for the Crew\], there's not a down moment in our stadium.

"... I think that belief from the crowd, that belief in our guys – combined with the belief that our guys have – is what makes this place a special place to play."

As you'd expect for a Nashville win, Hany Mukhtar was at the heart of it. Making his 200th MLS regular-season appearance, the captain opened the scoring in the 27th minute with a well-taken goal from a tight angle and grabbed the assist for Baker-Whiting's 93rd-minute equalizer.

The 2022 Landon Donovan MLS MVP continues to be the heart and soul of Nashville while putting together another elite season in MLS, with 9g/6a in 21 appearances.

"It's a great credit to them," Callaghan said of team leaders like Mukhtar. "They have that torch to carry. But you see that they also have a great group with them right alongside them that's ready to make contributions.

"... I think when everybody kinda plays with this selflessness and wants to see each guy and each teammate shine, special things can happen."

Nashville still have 13 matches left to play, but with a nine-point lead in the Supporters' Shield standings, they're in pole position to take home the trophy.

After winning the US Open Cup last year, the Coyotes have hit an entirely different level in 2026, consistently proving themselves as the team to beat in MLS.

"The group is a confident group," said Callaghan. "Their confidence comes from doing things that they say they want to do.

"... This group wants to go out and try to win every game. And I know everybody wants to do that, but the point is when you have the opportunity to do it, you have to show that you want to do it."
