First game: Feb. 21 - 9:30 pm ET at LAFC

Home opener: April 4 - 7:30 pm ET vs. Austin FC

Full schedule

<a href="https://soc.cr/4anADkS" target="_blank">Watch on Apple TV</a>

The reigning MLS Cup presented by Audi champions turned heads in the offseason transfer market, setting them up to challenge for the 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup title and open Miami Freedom Park this spring.

Lionel Messi will look to become the first three-time Landon Donovan MLS MVP and defend his Golden Boot presented by Audi crown (29g/19a). He added an Audi MLS Cup Playoffs record 15 goal contributions (6g/9a) en route to last year's title.

Also looming large for Messi? The 2026 FIFA World Cup, where he'll aim to help Argentina defend their title alongside teammate Rodrigo De Paul.

They'll likely be joined at the global spectacle by Mexican striker Germán Berterame and Canadian goalkeeper Dayne St. Clair, two of Inter Miami's top winter signings.

David Ayala: The midfielder arrived via a trade with the Portland Timbers, enhancing options following Sergio Busquets’ retirement.

Germán Berterame: The Mexican international forward, acquired from LIGA MX side CF Monterrey, is Miami’s third DP alongside Messi and De Paul.

Micael: The Brazilian center back returns to MLS after starring with Houston Dynamo FC. He's on loan from Brazilian Série A side Palmeiras.

Facundo Mura: A versatile defender, Mura was signed as a free agent after playing for Racing Club in his native Argentina.

Sergio Reguilón: The Spanish left back was signed as a free agent after stops with Tottenham Hotspur, Real Madrid, Manchester United and more.

Dayne St. Clair: The 2025 MLS Goalkeeper of the Year was signed via free agency after seven seasons with Minnesota United FC.

Full roster

Jordi Alba: The legendary Spanish left back retired as an MLS Cup 2025 champion.

Tomás Avilés: The Argentine center back was loaned to CF Montréal for the 2026 season.

Sergio Busquets: Busquets, arguably the greatest defensive midfielder of his generation, retired after Miami's memorable 2025 campaign.

Baltasar Rodríguez: The Argentine midfielder's loan from Racing Club expired, having provided 3g/3a in 22 games.

Óscar Ustari: The veteran goalkeeper left Miami via mutual contract termination.

Marcelo Weigandt: The Argentine defender is back playing for Boca Juniors after being on loan with Miami.

Apple TV talent predict the 2026 regular season for Inter Miami CF.

Andrés Agulla: 1st in Eastern Conference

Marcelo Balboa: 1st in Eastern Conference

Max Bretos: 1st in Eastern Conference

Steve Cangialosi: 1st in Eastern Conference

Daniel Chapela: 1st in Eastern Conference

Miguel Gallardo: 1st in Eastern Conference

Michele Giannone: 1st in Eastern Conference

Tony Husband: 1st in Eastern Conference

Kaylyn Kyle: 1st in Eastern Conference

Sacha Kljestan: 1st in Eastern Conference

Lori Lindsey: 1st in Eastern Conference

Dax McCarty: 1st in Eastern Conference

Sammy Sadovnik: 3rd in Eastern Conference

Bruno Vain: 1st in Eastern Conference

Bradley Wright-Phillips: 1st in Eastern Conference

BUY NOW: <a href="https://www.mlsstore.com/inter-miami-cf/t-32581152+z-810147-2476434126?_s=bm-mlssoccercom-MIAMICF-MLS_JerseyLaunch-Editorial -022026" target="_blank">Inter Miami CF’s Presagio Kit</a>

Head coach: Javier Mascherano

Stadium: Miami Freedom Park

Last year: 19W-7L-8D, 65 points, 3rd in Eastern Conference

Audi 2025 MLS Cup Playoffs: MLS Cup 2025 presented by Audi champions

All 2026 season previews

NEXT: Minnesota United FC season preview
