Austin FC have a high-stakes clash with LIGA MX powerhouse Club América on Thursday night, with both clubs chasing a win to secure a Leagues Cup quarterfinal berth.

<a href="https://soc.cr/4yYzID9" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

<a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/leagues-cup/2026/matches/amevsatx-08-13-2026/" target="_blank">Thursday, Aug. 13</a> | 8:30 pm ET/5:30 pm PT

Q2 Stadium | Austin, Texas

In Phase One, each team plays three matches against opponents from the opposite league. The top four clubs from each league-specific table advance to the quarterfinals.

The tournament champion will be crowned on Sept. 6. Additionally, the top three finishers qualify for the 2027 Concacaf Champions Cup.

Standings

3rd in LIGA MX Leagues Cup table

6 points (2W-0L-0D)

Last match

Club América secured a second consecutive tournament victory with a 3-1 win over the Portland Timbers on Sunday evening.

Former LAFC winger Brian Rodríguez and Isaías Violante each netted their second goal of the tournament, while Óscar Perea came off the bench to add the third.

Players to watch

Brian Rodríguez: The LAFC alum is one of Club América's most dangerous attacking threats and featured for Uruguay at the 2026 FIFA World Cup.

Henry Martín: A club legend and current team captain, the Mexican international striker has scored 118 goals across all competitions for Las Águilas.

Israel Reyes: The 26-year-old defender made four appearances for Mexico at the World Cup, helping the co-hosts reach the Round of 16.

Isaías Violante: Another Mexican international, the 22-year-old forward has scored in both Leagues Cup Phase One matches thus far.

Need to know

The most successful club in LIGA MX history with 16 league titles, Las Águilas enter every competition with the intention to win it.

América led the LIGA MX Leagues Cup table after two Phase One matchdays, and can guarantee advancement to the tournament's knockout rounds with three points against Austin.

Standings

4th in MLS Leagues Cup table

6 points (2W-0L-0D)

Last match

Austin completed back-to-back shutout victories in Leagues Cup with a 3-0 rout of Club Puebla on Sunday, highlighted by a first-half hat trick from Albanian striker Myrto Uzuni.

That built off a 2-0 win over Club Tijuana to open their Leagues Cup run. Joseph Rosales and Jon Gallagher scored in that match.

Players to watch

Myrto Uzuni: The club-record signing netted his first multi-goal game with the Verde & Black by scoring the seventh hat trick in Leagues Cup history against Puebla.

Facundo Torres: A Uruguayan international, Torres has notched 1g/6a in league play this season in his return to MLS as Austin's marquee offseason signing.

Brandon Vazquez: A Designated Player with extensive experience across MLS and LIGA MX, the USMNT striker is searching for his first goal since returning from an ACL tear in May.

Brad Stuver: Austin's starting goalkeeper since their inaugural 2021 season, the fan favorite is yet to concede a goal in Leagues Cup 2026.

Need to know

Despite sitting 14th in the MLS regular season Western Conference table, the Verde & Black have taken full advantage of their Leagues Cup opportunity.

Austin led the MLS Leagues Cup table after two Phase One matchdays, and will likely need at least two points against Club América to secure a spot in the quarterfinals.
