Lionel Messi and Argentina are keeping the 2026 FIFA World Cup magic going all the way to the final.

Messi’s two assists sparked the defending champions’ latest knockout-round heroics on Wednesday: a late, 2-1 come-from-behind win over England that sets up Sunday’s marquee final vs. Spain at New York/New Jersey Stadium (3 pm ET | FOX, Telemundo, Peacock).

Argentina are now one win away from becoming the first back-to-back World Cup champions since Brazil in 1958 and 1962.

“This is very powerful. This is honestly very powerful,” said Lautaro Martínez, who scored the dramatic 92nd-minute game-winner at Atlanta Stadium. “From the time my dad bought me my first pair of boots, I always dreamed of the national team.”

“… This team keeps on showing what it’s made of.”

Down a goal and five minutes away from elimination, Messi & Co. stepped up in the clutch. First, Inter Miami CF’s superstar No. 10 linked up with Enzo Fernández, who blasted a long-range, 85th-minute equalizer past goalkeeper Jordan Pickford.

The post then came to Pickford’s rescue, denying Alexis Mac Allister in second-half stoppage time, only for Messi to quickly take possession and find Martínez at the far post for the game-winning header.

Absolute pandemonium ensued, as Argentina delivered the latest in a string of epic wins at this summer’s tournament.

According to head coach Lionel Scaloni, Wednesday’s result ranks among the greatest in Argentina history.

“Beyond the quality of the opponent, it’s a semifinal. And the way it happened, I don’t know if this has happened before,” Scaloni said. “Diego’s \[Maradona\] goal, his second goal \[vs. England in the 1986 World Cup quarterfinals\] was magnificent for what it was; it’s a part of history.

"But the level of play today - not to compare - but I think today’s level was incredible.”

Messi has been behind nearly every magical moment for Argentina, producing a personal-best 12 goal contributions (8g/4a) to surpass French superstar Kylian Mbappé (8g/3a) for the 2026 World Cup Golden Boot lead.

And that’s just the tip of the iceberg for the eight-time Ballon d’Or winner, who has set multiple tournament records this summer. Among the highlights: most all-time World Cup goals (21), most all-time World Cup assists (12) and longest World Cup goal-scoring streak (nine games).

Fernández, arguably the hero of Wednesday’s semifinal win, showed just what Messi means to him and his teammates by lifting the 39-year-old over his shoulders during the team’s post-match celebrations.

“What more does he \[Messi\] have to do to be the best in history?” Scaloni asked reporters.

“I mean, there’s no doubt whatsoever.”

Now, it’s onto Sunday’s final for Messi and Argentina. A dangerous opponent awaits in Spain.

The reigning UEFA European champions, La Roja defeated tournament favorites France in the semifinal, a professional 2-0 win behind goals from top scorer Mikel Oyarzabal and Pedro Porro.

Lamine Yamal, the hero of Spain's Euro '24 title, is awaiting his breakout moment this summer.

The 19-year-old wonderkid has been hailed by many as Messi's successor at FC Barcelona, the club where the Argentina icon shot to legendary status over a memorable 17 seasons in Spain.

"Spain should enjoy him \[Messi\] as well \[in Sunday's final\] because I know that they love him," said Scaloni. "Not every Spaniard, but a big part of Spain loves him."
