Antoine Griezmann and Orlando City host Robert Lewandowski and Chicago Fire FC for a marquee Eastern Conference showdown on Wednesday night.

<a href="https://soc.cr/3RW8BId" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

Wednesday, Aug. 19 | 7:30 pm ET/4:30 pm PT

Inter.co Stadium | Orlando, Florida

Standings

10th in Eastern Conference

21 points (6W-10L-3D)

Last game

Orlando played to a 1-1 home draw vs. FC Cincinnati during Matchday 20's Walmart Saturday Showdown. Tyrese Spicer canceled out Pavel Bucha's opening goal to salvage a point for the hosts.

The result followed a 1W-1L-1D performance in Leagues Cup, as the Lions turned the page on their international commitments to focus on the 2026 MLS season stretch run and next month's US Open Cup semifinal date with the Columbus Crew.

Players to watch

Antoine Griezmann: The legendary French forward has 2g/1a over his first seven appearances across all competitions for Orlando.

Tyrese Spicer\\:\\ The club's second-top scorer has five goals, four of them coming after the 2026 FIFA World Cup pause.

Marco Pašalić: Orlando's Designated Player winger represented Croatia at this summer's World Cup.

Maxime Crépeau: The veteran goalkeeper started every match during Canada's historic run to the World Cup Round of 16 over the summer.

Need to know

Orlando were the talk of MLS coming out of the World Cup break, beginning the Griezmann era in style with wins over the San Jose Earthquakes (4-0) and Supporters' Shield-leading Nashville SC (1-0).

It's been a different story in August, with the Lions posting a 1W-2L-2D record across all competitions while going winless in MLS action.

Can Griezmann and Co. bring back the early vibes with a statement performance?

Standings

3rd in Eastern Conference

32 points (10W-6L-2D)

Last game

Chicago made it two straight league wins on Sunday with a 2-1 decision over the Portland Timbers at Soldier Field.

Robin Lod and Dje D’Avilla scored the goals that built on the Fire's perfect Leagues Cup Phase One campaign (3W-0L-0D). They'll face LIGA MX's CF Monterrey in the quarterfinals later this month.

Players to watch

Robert Lewandowski: Chicago's blockbuster summer signing has three goals in his first seven games (all competitions) with the Fire.

Philip Zinckernagel: The two-time All-Star is Chicago's active goal contributions leader with 13 (5g/8a).

Chris Brady: After making the USMNT's World Cup squad, the homegrown goalkeeper has six clean sheets this season – two shy of his career-best mark.

Robin Lod: Minnesota United FC's all-time leading scorer has produced 4g/3a in his debut season with the Fire.

Need to know

Chicago are arguably MLS's hottest team right now, reeling off five straight wins across all competitions – including an impressive Leagues Cup Phase One showing that has them among the knockout round favorites.

But MLS Cup presented by Audi is equally, if not more, important for the Fire, who have silverware in mind for year two under head coach and director of football Gregg Berhalter.

A win on Wednesday could go a long way in further cementing Chicago's contender bona fides.

Despite being on the road, Chicago have a 44% chance of winning versus Orlando's 33%.

Market insights shared are current as of Monday, Aug. 17 at 3 pm ET.
