Lionel Messi announced his retirement from the Argentina national team on Monday, officially ending one of the greatest international careers of all time.

Inter Miami CF's legendary No. 10 confirmed the news on his <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/DctWzhYxElg/" target="_blank">social media account</a>, calling it a "decision that hurt, and still hurts deep down, but I understand that the time has come.

"I swear to you that I always gave it my all: not just in these last few years when we won everything, but before that too; I always fought and left everything on the field for this jersey, to bring you joy and make you feel proud to be Argentine through football."

Messi retires from international duty as a national team hero, rivalled only by the late Diego Armando Maradona.

His 125 goals, 68 assists and 207 appearances are all Argentina records, while he ranks top-four all-time in caps, top-two in goals and No. 1 in assists across international soccer.

The 39-year-old reached his greatest heights with La Albiceleste at the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar, leading the country to its third title with 7g/3a over the course of a memorable tournament that culminated with a legendary final win over France.

Messi also won two Copa Américas (2021, '24) with Argentina, and reached the 2014 and 2026 World Cup finals. He is the only player in history to win two World Cup Golden Ball awards (2014, '22) and the only player to start three World Cup finals (2014, '22, '26).

Monday's announcement capped an emotional summer for Messi, who guided Argentina to their second straight World Cup final with 8g/4a in eight games, before falling to Spain, 1-0, in the 2026 title match.

That turned out to be his last appearance with La Albiceleste. It also came a few weeks before the eight-time Ballon d'Or winner mourned the passing of his father, Jorge Messi.

"I wrote these words on July 21st, two days after the final," Messi concluded in his statement.

"Today, after what happened with my dad, I am even more convinced than before."

Messi, the most decorated soccer player in history, addressed his millions of followers on Monday to officially announce the end of his remarkable 21-year run with Argentina:

"After the time that has passed since the final, and after giving it a lot of thought, I want to let everyone know that I am retiring from the National Team.

"It was a decision that hurt, and still hurts deep down, but I understand that the time has come. I swear to you that I always gave it my all: not just in these last few years when we won everything, but before that too; I always fought and left everything on the field for this jersey, to bring you joy and make you feel proud to be Argentine through football.

"Time is running short, chapters come to a close, and this is one that hurts me deeply. I love, have loved, and will always love being part of the National Team. I’ve given everything I had; I have nothing left to give, and besides, there are some great young players coming up who deserve to be here.

"Thank you for all the affection over these past 20 years. I will miss hearing you from the pitch so much. Now I’ll be just one of you, cheering and supporting from the outside (through the good times and the bad, especially the bad).

"Thank you to my family for always being there, for accompanying me on this journey, so beautiful, yet so difficult. Thank you to every coach, teammate, and official I’ve shared this path with. I take with me unforgettable memories and moments.

"I leave with the peace of mind and pride of having given you, alongside my teammates, moments we once only dreamed of. It was an incredible experience to live this with you all. I love you!

"Thank you, God, for making me Argentine.

"Let's go, Argentina!

"I wrote these words on July 21st, two days after the final. Today, after what happened with my dad, I am even more convinced than before."
