The Supporters' Shield lead is up for grabs when Nashville SC host reigning MLS Cup presented by Audi champions Inter Miami CF on Saturday evening in a top-of-the-table clash.

<a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/nashville-sc-vs-inter-miami-cf/umc.cse.4611ys4icn6e41hr1pyxftunt?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.4000%2Ctvs.sbd.7000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>

Saturday, Aug. 15 | 8:30 pm ET/5:30 pm PT

GEODIS Park | Nashville, Tennessee

Standings

1st in Eastern Conference

40 points (12W-2L-4D)

Last game

Nashville exited Leagues Cup with a 2-1 loss to CF Monterrey in their Phase One finale. Still, Ahmed Qasem made history by scoring the fastest goal in club history just 21 seconds into the match.

Now, they'll return to MLS play with the Supporters' Shield lead and the chance to create distance from the chasing pack.

Players to watch

Hany Mukhtar: The 2022 Landon Donovan MLS MVP is on track to record at least 20 goal contributions for the fifth time in six seasons.

Sam Surridge: Nashville's leading goalscorer (11), Surridge is just two goals off the Golden Boot presented by Audi lead.

Cristian Espinoza: Recently returned from injury, the marquee winter signing leads the team with eight assists.

Brian Schwake: Earning the starting job ahead of longtime goalkeeper Joe Willis this season, Schwake was rewarded for his breakout season with a 2026 MLS All-Star selection.

Need to know

After lifting their first trophy in club history last season as 2025 US Open Cup champions, the Coyotes are back on the hunt for silverware in their second full season under head coach B.J. Callaghan.

The former USMNT assistant has built a well-rounded squad that boasts a top-three attack in the East (35 goals), has conceded the fewest goals in MLS (14) and remains the best team in the league at home with an unbeaten 8W-0L-1D record (25 points). Not to mention a league-best four All-Stars.

Plus, after knocking Inter Miami out of the 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup Round of 16 earlier this season, Nashville have plenty of reason to believe they can beat the Herons to the Supporters' Shield title as well.

Standings

2nd in Eastern Conference

38 points (11W-2L-5D)

Last game

Closing out their Leagues Cup campaign, Inter Miami fell 3-2 to Club León in dramatic fashion.

Nonetheless, there were still some positives to take from the game as Lionel Messi made his emotional return to the field, Daniel Pinter scored his first goal for the club and All-Star midfielder Yannick Bright also inked his name on the scoresheet.

Players to watch

Luis Suárez: The legendary Uruguayan striker continues to show that age is just a number, already notching his third straight season with 10+ goals.

Rodrigo De Paul: A 2026 FIFA World Cup finalist with Argentina, De Paul is the Herons' co-leader in assists (eight) during his first full MLS season.

Casemiro: The most recent global superstar to join Miami, Casemiro represented Brazil at the World Cup after lifting five UEFA Champions League titles with Real Madrid amid a lengthy European career.

Yannick Bright: The 24-year-old Italian midfielder is fresh off his first MLS All-Star selection.

Need to know

Crowned Leagues Cup 2023 victors (beating Nashville in penalties), 2024 Supporters' Shield winners and 2025 MLS Cup presented by Audi champions, the trophy-winning expectation in South Florida is clear to see.

Now, Miami will be eager to return to winning ways after consecutive Leagues Cup defeats, and keep their seven-match unbeaten streak in league play alive.

It won't be an easy task to leap Nashville atop the Supporters' Shield standings by handing them their first home loss of the season. But if anybody should be confident in doing so, it's the side that owns the best road record in MLS (8W-1L-1D; 25 points).

Nashville are slight favorites at home, given a 43% chance of winning compared to Miami's 33%.

Market insights shared are current as of Thursday, Aug. 13 at 1 pm ET.
