FC Dallas fans watching Wednesday’s high-profile England vs. Croatia match were treated to a familiar sight. Except this time, it came on the 2026 FIFA World Cup stage.

On the stroke of halftime, with his side trailing 2-1, Dallas and Croatia striker Petar Musa silenced the rowdy, pro-England crowd at Dallas Stadium. After being set up by an expertly flicked header from Ivan Perišić, Musa volleyed an equalizer past England goalkeeper Jordan Pickford that sent Croatia level at 2-2.

However, England ultimately scored two second-half goals through Jude Bellingham and Marcus Rashford to secure a 4-2 win in Group L action.

With a World Cup debut goal, Musa became the second MLS player to score at this summer’s tournament after Inter Miami CF superstar Lionel Messi netted a historic hat trick on Tuesday.

In a Croatian team full of legendary names, Musa perhaps doesn’t jump off the teamsheet. But Dallas' talisman has more than earned his place in head coach Zlatko Dalić's starting XI.

Returning to the national team fold in November 2025, Musa caught the eye of Croatia's longtime manager. He featured in all but one match during the build-up to the FIFA World Cup, scoring his first international goal in a decisive qualifier.

Musa's second goal for Croatia will be far more memorable, as the World Cup debutant sent his side level with the Three Lions, a team widely considered to be among the tournament favorites.

Musa is now up to two goals in 12 caps and looks set to play a crucial role as Croatia aim to replicate their 2018 and 2022 World Cup runs, in which they reached the final and semifinal, respectively.

Musa is enjoying a tremendous 2026 MLS campaign, tallying 12g/2a at the World Cup break to sit third in the Golden Boot presented by Audi race.

During his three seasons in MLS, Musa has scored at least 12 goals in every campaign, including a career-high 18 in 2025. He's on pace to set a new personal best this season as he attempts to lead FC Dallas into the Audi MLS Cup Playoffs for the second consecutive year.

It's all helped Musa reach the World Cup stage alongside Marco Pašalić. The Orlando City winger and 2025 MLS All-Star was a second-half substitute for Croatia vs. England.

Musa and Pašalić return to action on Tuesday vs. Panama, hoping to earn their first points in Group L (7 pm ET | FOX, Telemundo, Peacock).
