The Western Conference leaders meet MLS's most in-form club when Vancouver Whitecaps FC host St. Louis CITY SC on Saturday evening.

Standings

Last game

Fresh off a 3-0 victory at Sporting Kansas City, Vancouver began their pursuit of a fifth consecutive Canadian Championship title midweek with a 1-1 draw vs. CF Montréal in Leg 1 of the tournament semifinals.

Ryan Gauld scored an equalizer for the Whitecaps, cancelling out an early strike from Montréal midfielder Dani Pereira.

Players to watch

Need to know

The Whitecaps' biggest move in the summer transfer window was sending MLS All-Star and Best XI midfielder Sebastian Berhalter to Middlesbrough. They've replaced the USMNT standout by signing Serbian youth international Aleksa Cvetković and handing Oliver Larraz more minutes.

Not to worry, Berhalter's departure has seemingly not affected the team's upward trajectory following first-ever Concacaf Champions Cup and MLS Cup final appearances in 2025.

Case in point: Vancouver enjoy a four-point lead atop the West with a game in hand over second-place Houston Dynamo FC.

Standings

Last game

St. Louis conceded two late goals during Sunday Night Soccer presented by Continental Tire, allowing FC Dallas to snatch a point from a 3-3 draw at Energizer Park.

Nonetheless, the stalemate continued CITY's 12-game unbeaten streak in league play.

Players to watch

Need to know

St. Louis were among the summer transfer window "winners," and certainly were one of the league's busiest teams.

Amid bidding farewell to fan favorites Marcel Hartel and Eduard Löwen, St. Louis reloaded by signing Holse, Navarro and USMNT striker Damion Downs. Holse and Navarro are both Designated Players.

St. Louis will hope to quickly integrate the newcomers and keep building in their first season under Sigi Schmid MLS Coach of the Year candidate Yoann Damet.

Rafael Navarro is #AllForCITY 🔴 pic.twitter.com/jD7xp4kRYj

Download Polymarket: $50 Bonus with code MLS50

Vancouver's perch atop the West has given them 68% of the market thus far, compared to just 15% for St. Louis.

Market insights shared are current as of Friday, Sept. 4 at 9 am ET.
