The Philadelphia Union and FC Cincinnati earned decisive victories, while Vancouver Whitecaps FC settled for a draw in their 2026 Concacaf Champions Cup Round One openers on Wednesday night.

Bruno Damiani struck for a second-half brace to help put the finishing touches on the Union's 5-0 road rout of Trinidad & Tobago's Defence Force FC.

Milan Iloski and club-record signing Ezekiel Alladoh scored two minutes apart in the first half to open the scoring.

Olwethu Makhanya made it 3-0 in the 64th minute before Cavan Sullivan set up Damiani for his first. Then, Damiani netted his second from the penalty spot to close things out for Philadelphia.

The Union will look to close things out in Leg 2 at home on Feb. 26. The aggregate winner faces LIGA MX powerhouse Club América in the Round of 16.

30' - PHI - Milan Iloski | WATCH

32' - PHI - Ezekiel Alladoh | WATCH

64' - PHI - Olwethu Makhanya | WATCH

69' - PHI - Bruno Damiani | WATCH

81' - PHI - Bruno Damiani (PK) | WATCH

Lineups

Ayoub Jabbari scored twice in the closing moments to seal Cincy's comprehensive 4-0 win at Dominican Republic side O&M FC.

Tom Barlow and Kévin Denkey struck in the first half before Jabbari atoned for a missed penalty kick with a near-post blast in the 86th minute. The Moroccan forward, who was a second-half substitute, put a bow on the victory in stoppage time.

Leg 2 will be played at Cincinnati's TQL Stadium on Feb. 25. The winner advances to the Round of 16 to take on LIGA MX juggernaut Tigres UANL.

12' - CIN - Tom Barlow | WATCH

33' - CIN - Kévin Denkey | WATCH

86' - CIN - Ayoub Jabbari | WATCH

90+2' - CIN - Ayoub Jabbari | WATCH

Lineups

Despite playing much of the match on the front foot, Vancouver settled for a 0-0 draw at Costa Rican side CS Cartaginés.

The Whitecaps had 75% of possession, outshot the hosts 17-7 and accumulated 10 corner kicks, but couldn't capitalize on one of their five shots on frame.

It all gets decided Feb. 25 at BC Place, with the aggregate winner meeting Seattle Sounders FC in the Round of 16.

None

Lineups
