Alexis Sánchez, over two decades into a legendary career for club and country, doesn’t just accept the spotlight that comes with his famous name. He craves it.

That competitive fire drove the Chilean superstar to follow the path of other generational talents into Major League Soccer – specifically as CF Montréal’s blockbuster summer signing.

“I saw all these world-class players coming: \[Lionel\] Messi, \[Luis\] Suárez, \[Robert\] Lewandowski,” Sánchez told reporters on Tuesday during his introductory press conference.

“And I said, ‘Why not come and give myself the opportunity to play with these great, world-class players?’"

With nearly 800 appearances across famed European clubs such as Arsenal, FC Barcelona and Inter Milan, Sánchez certainly ranks alongside the aforementioned Messi and Suárez, who led Inter Miami CF to MLS Cup glory last season, and Lewandowski, Chicago Fire FC’s new centerpiece under head coach and director of football Gregg Berhalter.

In fact, “El Niño Maravilla” won six of his 20 career club titles with Messi at Barça between 2011-14 before becoming a household name in the English Premier League with Arsenal and Manchester United.

Internationally, Sánchez helped guide Chile’s “Golden Generation” to back-to-back Copa América titles (2015, '16), defeating Messi’s Argentina in both finals. In addition, his 168 caps and 51 goals are both records for La Roja.

“I was born playing soccer, I grew up playing soccer, and it’s a talent that God gave me,” said Sánchez. “It’s easy for me. Soccer isn’t just running. You have to think, understand the moments.

"And I keep playing soccer because it’s easy for me.”

Sánchez, who trained with his new CFMTL teammates for the first time on Monday, concedes he’s not fully match fit and needs to accumulate official minutes on the field – potentially beginning with Wednesday’s visit to the Columbus Crew (7:30 pm ET | <a href="https://tv.apple.com/us/sporting-event/columbus-crew-vs-cf-montreal/umc.cse.3c2p8koll1whtgb16h6iq1dy2?ctx_brand=tvs.sbd.7000%2Ctvs.sbd.4000" target="_blank">Apple TV</a>).

However, the 37-year-old veteran insists he has “the body of a 25-year-old” and will give his younger Montréal teammates a run for their money.

“I felt good training with 22-year-old kids; I ran more than they did,” said Sánchez. “They asked me: ‘What’s your deal? Why are you doing so well?’ What do I know? Physically, I prepare myself well. But I have to show it on the field – Saturdays, Wednesdays, every day.

“I demand a lot from myself because I compete.”

For Luca Saputo, Montréal's senior director of recruitment and sporting methodology, Sánchez provides an instant attacking boost to a side that’s scored 25 goals this season (second fewest in Eastern Conference).

“Offensively, we’ve struggled a bit this year,” said Saputo. “We’ve been in games where we’re missing that final little end product, and obviously he can bring that to our team.

“And I think he will.”

Beyond his on-field product, Sánchez will be counted upon to teach the intangibles to a young squad that’s looking to make a late push for the Audi 2026 MLS Cup Playoffs. Montréal are 14th in the East with 17 points, seven shy of a Wild Card spot.

“I hope the kids here in Montréal learn from me,” said Sánchez, who last played for Sevilla and is signed through the 2027 Sprint Season with an option for 2027-28.

“… I’m going to demand a lot, I’m going to help them improve.”

Just how much improvement will there be from Montréal? Ever the competitor, Sánchez is aiming high.

“I’ve played at the best clubs in the world – \[Manchester\] United, Arsenal, Inter \[Milan\], Marseille – and coming here to Canada was a challenge," Sánchez said. "A challenge to help the club and eventually win a championship. My mentality has always been to become a champion wherever I’ve gone.

“I’ve always come out a champion.”
