Myrto Uzuni can't stop scoring.

The Austin FC attacker delivered again on Thursday night, scoring a second-half equalizer to help the Verde & Black book their spot in the Leagues Cup 2026 knockout rounds with a penalty shootout victory over Club América following a 1-1 draw.

With Austin down a goal midway through the second half, Uzuni stepped up once again, curling a classy shot into the side netting to ensure progression to the quarterfinals.

Uzuni has hit his best form at the perfect time.

The Albanian international joined the Verde & Black as a Designated Player from Spanish side Granada CF ahead of the 2025 season, arriving with a reputation as a proven goalscorer.

After a first-half hat-trick powered their 3-0 win over Puebla, Uzuni's equalizer on Thursday brings him up to four goals in Leagues Cup, nearly matching the six MLS regular-season goals he's scored in 2026.

"I love Myrto. I love the way that he plays, and I love his intensity," interim head coach Davy Arnaud said after the game. "... He can be fiery at times, and he wears his heart on his sleeve. It's a passionate game. To play at a high level, you gotta be on that line.

"He can disagree with certain things or not be happy with his performance, but he never doesn't work for the team ever. I have so much time for that. I have so much respect for that, because to me, there's nothing more important."

Part of Uzuni's success is a new setup for Austin, who have shifted to a back three system, with Uzuni playing in a more free role underneath striker Christian Ramírez.

"The role he's playing now is as one of these attacking midfielders. I think it suits him well," said Arnaud. "He's a late arriver in the box. He does that well... And I think you see his quality in the box. When he gets chances in and around the box, he can finish, and he's finishing well right now."

2026 hasn't been easy for Austin. They currently sit near the bottom of the Western Conference after a difficult start to the campaign.

The struggles prompted a coaching change, with former Philadelphia Union boss Jim Curtin recently hired to take over the club following the conclusion of the 2026 season.

For Arnaud, Leagues Cup represents a clean slate and a chance to kick-start their form heading into the stretch run of the MLS season.

"I think it was a fresh start for us coming into this. We know we're in a difficult position in the league. That's no secret," said Arnaud. "But I think what this competition has done for us, it's given us a reset. Everyone starts at zero... These guys have a belief, and they see that they can win games, and that's a powerful thing.

"When you get momentum, you have this real feeling in the locker room that they can win games, they have each other's back. This is the most important thing."
