HOUSTON — Jesse Marsch and Alistair Johnston sit in reality.

When Canada face Morocco at Houston Stadium on Saturday in the country's first men's FIFA World Cup Round of 16 match, they know it will take an out-of-this-world effort – in Space City – to keep their tournament dream alive.

“Morocco is a team that has literally zero weaknesses,” Marsch told reporters on Friday, after he called watching their film a “gory, horrible nightmare” earlier in the week.

“We have to try to be good at the things that we care about and that we are good at.”

As difficult as the clash will be, this summer has been about opportunity, and few moments in Canadian sports history can rival the chance to play a match of Saturday’s magnitude.

First, it was earning a point, then securing a win and advancing from the group for the first time.

Last week in Los Angeles, <a href="https://www.mlssoccer.com/competitions/fifa-world-cup/2026/matches/rsavscan-06-28-2026/" target="_blank">their 1-0 win</a> over South Africa became the most-watched non-final knockout game in the country’s history, with 11.2 million people tuning in to at least part of the game, finally giving Canadian men’s soccer its moment on the world stage.

But as great as it was, they’re hungry for more.

“I want to be able to look at myself in the mirror after this World Cup and say that we left it all out there, and I do think that so far in this tournament we've done that,” defender Alistair Johnston said Friday, as Canadians get set to tune in as the country basks in the post-Canada Day weekend.

“Even though we're down in Houston, we know what kind of cultural impact this is having back home, and that's something that resonates with us — we also know that the best way to continue to grow the game is to win.”

To have any chance, Canada will have to play their best game ever and maybe get some luck. Four years ago, in their final match at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, Les Rouges got a stroke of luck when Morocco scored an own goal in a 2-1 loss to the Atlas Lions.

Since then, though, the programs have evolved, and while that experience is relevant, it’s far from defining.

“I’ve been trying to tell the guys to play the game, not the occasion,” said Johnston, one of the seven current CanMNT players who faced Morocco in 2022.

“It's going to be loud, and there are going to be noises that you didn't even know were possible to be made in a stadium, and it's going to be unbelievably tough to focus. But we need to remember we're all in this together.”

If there’s one thing Canada can be certain of now, it’s that they can compete – if not beat – anyone, unlike in 2022.

Since Marsch took the reins in 2024, Canada have played to scoreless draws with some of the world's top sides, including France, Colombia and the Ivory Coast, and lost two respectable 2–0 scorelines to reigning World Cup champions Argentina at the 2024 Copa América.

While that idea has been omnipresent, it came to the forefront in a November 2025 meeting in Fort Lauderdale ahead of a friendly against Venezuela. There, Marsch separated players into small groups, and each was asked to define how opponents should feel when playing against them.

Every group came up with a similar answer. It should be unrelenting – and it should “feel like hell.”

That intensity will define Saturday. In Morocco’s 120-minute and penalty-kick win over the Netherlands, it was their raison d’être.

And Marsch’s men, as good as they can be, have had few moments at that pace and emotion.

“I think what you learn from being in those moments is your ability to actually focus on the things that matter and what's most important,” Marsch said, adding that he moved the players’ family and friends to a separate hotel in Houston to minimize distractions.

“We’re going to need to handle the difficulty of what Morocco is going to throw at us at every moment, and make sure that we are understanding exactly who we are, how we want to play, who we want to be, and that we execute that at the highest level.”

Luckily for Canada, the backline has been the emotional barometer, led by Johnston and Richie Laryea’s pressure-filled experience as fullbacks, and the composure of two 20-year-olds, Luc De Fougerolles and Moïse Bombito, alongside veteran Derek Cornelius in the heart of defense.

“The most important thing is that we have a strong defensive team for the World Cup,” Marsch said. “That is a really good statement on what's been developed with this team and the quality of the defenders and players that we have.

"So it will be important that we're stable and organized, but incredibly aggressive to make sure we make it difficult for Morocco.”

While preparing to play with pressure and intensity takes focus, it’s impossible not to embrace what a moment like Saturday can mean for the lives of every player and staff member.

Marsch, who ditched his suit and tie for the Round of 16 in favor of a quarter-zip and jeans, said he’ll be the one picking up the tab when the time comes for them to reflect on this journey.

“The \[players\] are so committed because they're so strong with each other, because they never back down, and because they invest everything they have every day into trying to make sure that we can maximize our potential," he said. "I'm going to be the one buying the beers, and I'm going to be the one thanking them for the experience and how rewarding it's been.

“But it's too early, because we still have so much that we want to and hope to achieve, and we're laser-focused on doing everything to make sure that we capitalize.”

Reality is what it is, and so too are the FIFA world rankings and history – but this World Cup has shown that anything is possible. Canada now hope it will be their turn at fantasy, with dreams of taking on France or Paraguay in the quarterfinals on July 9 at Boston Stadium.
