Lionel Messi and defending champions Argentina enter the 2026 FIFA World Cup knockouts on Friday with a Round of 32 clash against Steven Moreira and Cinderella story Cape Verde in Miami.

English: FOX

Spanish: Telemundo, Peacock

Friday, July 3 | 6 pm ET/3 pm PT

Miami Stadium | Miami Gardens, Florida

The winner advances to the Round of 16 on July 7 in Atlanta, while the loser's tournament is over.

The 2026 World Cup, expanded to 48 nations, runs from June 11 until July 19. Games are held in 16 cities across the United States, Canada and Mexico.

Group Stage: Group J winner (9 points)

FIFA World Ranking: 1

Confederation: Conmebol (South America)

Messi is in record-breaking form as Argentina seek to become the third country to lift back-to-back World Cup titles, alongside Italy (1934, '38) and Brazil (1958, '62).

Inter Miami CF's superstar No. 10 has become the World Cup's all-time leading scorer, reaching 19 goals to date in his joint-record sixth tournament.

Messi also currently leads the Golden Boot race with a competition-best six goals. He produced his first World Cup hat trick in Argentina's 3-0 opening win against Algeria, a brace in their 2-0 victory over Austria and the final tally in a 3-1 decision vs. Jordan to score for a record seventh straight World Cup game.

Miami teammate Rodrigo De Paul has also featured prominently for head coach Lionel Scaloni's side, as has former Atlanta United standout Thiago Almada.

Group Stage: Group H runner-up (3 points)

FIFA World Ranking: 67

Confederation: CAF (Africa)

This summer's Cinderella story, Cape Verde have defied expectations and captivated global audiences by becoming the smallest nation ever to reach the World Cup knockout rounds in their first-ever tournament appearance.

Featuring 2024 MLS Defender of the Year Steven Moreira (Columbus Crew), as well as San Diego FC goalkeeper CJ Dos Santos, the Blue Sharks made a massive opening statement by holding reigning European champions Spain to a 0-0 draw in one of the biggest upsets in tournament history.

Cape Verde followed that up with a 2-2 comeback tie vs. Uruguay before clinching second place in Group H with a scoreless draw against Saudi Arabia.

Can the fairytale run continue with another historic upset against the world's top-ranked side?
