Ryan Gauld is back with a bang!

The Vancouver Whitecaps FC captain returned from a long-term knee injury to score a brace in his league start in 501 days on Wednesday, becoming the first player in the club's MLS history to record 100 goal contributions.

The 30-year-old attacking midfielder first put his name on the scoresheet in the 25th minute to give Vancouver the lead before pulling one back in the 58th minute in a 4-3 defeat at FC Cincinnati.

Despite falling in a seven-goal thriller, Gauld producing his first multi-goal game since the Audi 2024 MLS Cup Playoffs is exactly the return Vancouver was hoping for as they aim to build on a superb first half of the season, which has them atop the Western Conference (32 points; 10W-2L-3D).

Capitalizing on a deflection to score his first goal before smashing an arrowed finish into the net to complete his brace, the veteran looks to be in midseason form following the 2026 FIFA World Cup pause.

"I think in general we did not have any problems creating chances when we played with the patience and the pace in the ball, and we had the good build-up phases," said head coach Jesper Sørensen. "Ryan, of course, we will not take anything away. He played brilliantly, scored a couple of goals, and it was amazing to have him back.

"And obviously, it was great for everybody that he also came on the scoring sheet, and we all are happy for him in that regard, and it's definitely positive.”

In his sixth season with Vancouver, Gauld tallied at least 17 goal contributions in three straight years until suffering his first long-term knee injury early last season amid the Whitecaps' first-ever trip to the Concacaf Champions Cup final.

Upon return from that seven-month absence, Gauld played every match of Vancouver's Audi MLS Cup Playoffs campaign, leading the club to its first-ever MLS Cup presented by Audi appearance.

Similarly making an immediate impact upon return in 2026, Gauld once again seems poised to guide the Western Conference leaders to trophy contention.
