The NWSL doesn’t slow down. Four matches are kicking off today (yes, a Wednesday) as eight teams turn around just days after the weekend slate. It’s a quick reset and a win is the perfect way to head into the weekend – but not everyone can come away with one. Here’s what storylines to watch for.

Boston is still searching for its first points in club history and a midweek home match presents another opportunity to finally get them. Being disciplined on the backline will be key for Boston but so is finishing their chances. The Courage, meanwhile, aren’t going to make anything easy for the expansion team. Manaka Matsukubo has contributed a goal or assist in every appearance this season. With her scoring and creating chances and Ashley Sanchez managing the midfield, Boston will need to score early and then hold the line if they finally want those points.

Feeling deja vu? Washington and Louisville already played to a 2-2 draw earlier this season, where the Spirit came back from a two-goal deficit to tie it up. And surely neither club has forgotten their 2025 playoff meeting last season that went to penalty kicks. The Spirit have won their last two matches – and pretty handily in both. Meanwhile, Louisville just won their first of the season and have midfielder Taylor Flint to thank for much of it, thanks to her league-leading interceptions, midfield manipulation, and height. She'll feature heavily again against a Washington Spirit team that seems to be stacked on every line.

Chicago vs. New York, two dominant sports cities, facing off in the NWSL on Wednesday night. The Stars are coming off a confidence-boosting shutout win against a Legacy team that repeatedly tested them. Meanwhile, Gotham recently had a dominant shutout win of their own, against the Bay. The question is, who will blink first? Goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger is having herself another incredible season, with her league-leading four clean sheets. She’ll have her work cut out for her if Chicago’s Jordyn Huitema is in form.

And one more thing? Chicago hasn’t beaten Gotham since 2022. It’s the perfect chance for the underdogs to flip the script on the league champs.

It doesn’t get bigger than this: No. 1 vs. No. 2 under the lights in Portland, a mecca of women’s soccer. Portland has been nearly untouchable at home, unbeaten in its last six, but San Diego enters on a five-game win streak – the longest in club history. That streak includes a 3-1 win over the Thorns the last time there was midweek action. The Wave are cruising after a comeback win last weekend, where they overcame a 2-0 deficit to score three unanswered goals against Denver. But Portland has some fire of their own. Forward Sophia Wilson is back to her goal-scoring ways, having scored their game-winner last weekend that earned her Goal of the Week honors. With Wilson and the young Pietra Tordin nearly unstoppable, it may take some Wave magic to extend their win streak.
