NEW YORK (February 27, 2024) –

The National Women’s Soccer League and NIKE, Inc. today unveiled vibrant new primary and secondary uniforms for each of the league’s 14 member clubs as part of a historic reset ahead of the 2024 season kicking off on Friday, March 15. Drawing inspiration from the colors and landscapes of the areas where they live and play, each club’s new collection emphasizes pride in their community and belief in their team — celebrating the connection between athletes and fans, all while ensuring players are sporting the latest in performance innovation while they play.

NEW YORK (February 27, 2024) – The National Women’s Soccer League and NIKE, Inc. today unveiled vibrant new primary and secondary uniforms for each of the league’s 14 member clubs as part of a historic reset ahead of the 2024 season kicking off on Friday, March 15. Drawing inspiration from the colors and landscapes of the areas where they live and play, each club’s new collection emphasizes pride in their community and belief in their team — celebrating the connection between athletes and fans, all while ensuring players are sporting the latest in performance innovation while they play.

This is the first time ever that a women’s professional soccer league has received a league-wide kit reset, as Nike hits refresh on the primary and secondary uniforms for every single team in the NWSL. The thoughtful designs reflect each club’s identity, provide a sense of joyful expression, and celebrate the energy created by sport for the teams and their communities. While the primary kits are where the individual club’s unique stories come to life, the secondary kits, which feature a gradient shift from dark to light using club colors, speak to the strength of the collective. Several primary kits also feature an “Outer Pride,” a saying or logo selected by the club to represent their community. The pre-match tops’ shared design was created by stacking traditional crests on top of one another and then adding texture and color to symbolically bring all the teams together as one. "This launch marks a pivotal moment for the NWSL as we join forces with Nike to introduce a visually striking, bold and community-inspired kit collection for all 14 clubs,” said NWSL Vice President of Consumer Products Katie Eaton. “We understand the importance of creating a range of products, from training gear to match uniforms, that effectively serve the needs of our players on the field while also ensuring that kit designs resonate with the fans who support and celebrate their teams with passion.” "This historic uniform refresh with Nike exemplifies our continued commitment to raising the bar and elevating the NWSL brand with vibrant kits that symbolize the powerful connection between the clubs, players, fans and our communities,” said NWSL Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer Julie Haddon. “We are excited to build upon this energetic moment as we approach our 2024 season kickoff.” This season, Nike designed bright, bold, beautiful pieces that would bring the NWSL teams, fans and communities closer together, connecting around their shared love of the game. In addition to a bespoke creative design, the updated match day kits for the NWSL's 12th campaign also feature Nike DRI-FIT ADV technology, which provides reinforcement, mobility and breathability when and where it’s needed most. White shorts were notably eliminated from the entire 2024 uniform line-up as well, based on practical concerns from players — underscoring the shared commitment of the NWSL and Nike to meaningfully incorporate athlete feedback into the design process. Jerseys, pre-match tops and an assortment of fan gear will be available today on NWSLShop.com and across all official league and club retailers ahead of the full marketplace launch on February 29. Replica goalkeeper jerseys will also be available for purchase as part of a late spring release. More details on the club products and creative assets are available below:

CLUB PRODUCT DETAILS HERE

CREATIVE ASSETS

Complementing the kit reset, the league’s official game ball, the Nike Flight, brings next-level innovation to the pitch this season. Using Nike Aerowsculpt technology, the molded grooves disrupt airflow across the ball for less drag and more stable flight, while its fuse-welded panels create fewer stiff seams and a prominent sweet spot, and 3D All Conditions Control (ACC) ink on the surface creates a consistent touch. The 2024 game ball is available now on NWSLShop.com. The NWSL will raise the curtain on its historic 12th campaign on Friday, March 15 at 8 p.m. ET as 2023 NWSL Champion NJ/NY Gotham FC takes on San Diego Wave FC, winner of the 2023 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, in the newly reformatted 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup. Following the Challenge Cup, the 2024 regular season kicks off Saturday, March 16 featuring matchups across the country, including Kansas City-Portland which will see a rematch of the 2022 NWSL Championship as the Current host their inaugural match at CPKC Stadium, the first purpose-built stadium for a women’s professional sports team. The full regular season schedule can be found here.
