Week 2 of the 2025 NWSL season is here, and the excitement of opening weekend is set to continue as all four semifinalists from 2024 prepare to face off this coming weekend. The season is a marathon, not a sprint, and while Orlando Pride picked up right where they left off with a dominant start, the Kansas City Current and Washington Spirit are close behind—just like they were in 2024. With the first-game jitters out of the way, Week 2 offers a clearer picture of where teams stand and just how well they prepared in the offseason.

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

Portland Thorns vs. Angel City FC – 10:00 PM ET

How to watch: Prime Video

The Portland Thorns return home to their beloved fans this Friday and are looking to rebound from a 3-1 loss in Kansas City. Olivia Moultrie, who scored the Thorns’ lone goal, remains a second-half threat—75% of her career goals have come after the break. The Thorns have historically been dominant in home openers, winning 10 of 11 all-time, but they’ll need to tighten up defensively after conceding three first-half goals last week.

Last weekend, Angel City FC started its season with a 1-1 draw against San Diego in Los Angeles, salvaging a point thanks to Alyssa Thompson’s equalizer. Thompson has now scored her team’s first goal of the season twice in her three-year professional career. As Angel City shakes off the rust and gets into the flow of the season, winning in one of the most volatile environments in the league for away teams would be a huge way to continue the season.

North Carolina Courage vs. Seattle Reign – 4:00 PM ET

How to watch: NWSL+

Seattle Reign secured a 1-1 draw against Gotham FC last week, thanks to a game-tying goal from Emeri Adames, who has quickly become a super-sub threat for the Reign. Adames’ ability to make an impact off the bench could be crucial against a Courage team that has historically dominated this matchup—North Carolina has won 9 of 10 home meetings between the teams–and is known for playing lights out in front of their home fans.

Speaking of young players who came up big for their team last weekend: the North Carolina Courage also started the season with a 1-1 draw, with Riley Jackson stepping up to score off a rebound. The 19-year-old midfielder showed composure beyond her years and will be a key presence in the middle of the park as North Carolina looks to extend its strong home form.

Washington Spirit vs. Kansas City Current – 4:30 PM ET

How to watch: ION

Washington Spirit picked up a hard-fought 2-1 win over Houston, with Ashley Hatch scoring her 54th career NWSL goal. As the league’s top scorer since being drafted in 2017, Hatch remains a constant goal threat, especially in tight games. It’s sure to be a can’t-miss match for anyone who isn’t there in person, with the Spirit projected to carry on their spirited in-game atmosphere that made headlines last season during the playoffs.

The Kansas City Current might be coming to ruin the fun, however. They looked electric in a 3-1 win over Portland last weekend, with the 2024 NWSL MVP and Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga opening her NWSL account in front of a packed CPKC Stadium. She isn’t the only dangerous threat for defenders, however. Michelle Cooper, Claire Hutton, Debinha, and pretty much everyone on the roster can equally be a game changer, and are used to playing in front of a noisy crowd.

San Diego Wave FC vs. Utah Royals FC – 7:00 PM ET

How to watch: NWSL+

The San Diego Wave and Utah Royals both opened their seasons with 1-1 draws last weekend. The Wave’s German international Gia Corley made an immediate impact, scoring five minutes into her NWSL debut, showcasing her attacking instincts and ability to find space. With a Wave lineup that featured a record-setting six European starters, Corley’s continued integration was key to San Diego’s attack.

Utah’s Bianca St-Georges also found the net in Week 1, scoring the first goal in the Royals’ 2025 season off a goalkeeper assist. Her wide play and ability to cut inside give Utah a dangerous outlet, but they’ll need to be more efficient in front of goal, especially considering they’ll be trying to score on Week 1 Save of the Week winning goalkeeper, Kailen Sheridan.

Bay FC vs. Racing Louisville FC – 10:00 PM ET

How to watch: ION

Bay FC kicks off its home slate after drawing 1-1 with Utah, thanks to Kiki Pickett’s stunning long-range equalizer that ended up picking up Goal of the Week accolades. Pickett, known for her defensive versatility, showed she can be a difference-maker in attack as well, but she isn’t the only goal scorer on the team. Once they shake off their offseason rust, Asisat Oshoala and Racheal Kundananji are accomplished goal scorers, defender and captain Abby Dahlkemper is dangerous on set pieces, and rookie Taylor Huff was looking threatening as well in her NWSL debut. Bay FC won both of its meetings with Louisville last season, each by a 1-0 scoreline, and will aim to replicate that defensive stability at home.

Racing Louisville FC, meanwhile, saw Emma Sears score their first goal of the season in a 1-1 draw with North Carolina last weekend. Sears' presence in the box and ability to generate shots on target (three last week) make her a focal point for Racing’s attack. Equally vital in their gameplan is Savannah DeMelo’s set pieces and Ary Borges’ creativity on the ball as they look to finally break through against Bay FC’s defense. They have one of the highest percentages of returning players (with Bay FC leading the stat), so chemistry and familiarity will not be an issue.

Chicago Stars FC vs. Houston Dash – 12:00 PM ET

How to watch: <a href="https://plus.nwslsoccer.com/live/279136?_gl=1*z121fs*_gcl_au*MTc5MDE4ODM4OC4xNzM5NDc1MDI2" target="_blank">NWSL+</a> / <a href="https://www.paramountplus.com/shows/national-womens-soccer-league/?ftag=PPM-06-10bgb8c" target="_blank">Paramount+</a>

The Chicago Stars suffered a rough start last weekend, conceding six goals to the reigning champions in Orlando. The Stars, now rebranded from the Chicago Red Stars, will be desperate to bounce back at home, and young Japanese midfielder Manaka Hayashi could be the key. Despite limited minutes in Week 1, Hayashi created three chances off the bench, showing her ability to spark the attack.

Houston Dash’s Maggie Graham made headlines in Week 1, subbing on in the second half to become the NWSL’s 1000th player and scoring just 15 minutes after coming on. With the Dash looking to avoid their first-ever 0-2 start to a season, Graham’s ability to find the net–alongside the Dash’s new scoring firepower—Yazmeen Ryan and Messiah Bright-–could provide the attacking spark Houston needs.

Gotham FC vs. Orlando Pride – 2:00 PM ET

How to watch: ESPN2 / ESPN+

The last matchup of the weekend sees the defending champions Orlando Pride take on Gotham FC. Orlando was unstoppable in a 6-0 rout last weekend, led by Barbra Banda, who scored twice and assisted another. Banda has now registered at least one goal contribution against 12 of the 13 NWSL teams—Gotham is the only one missing from her list. She’ll be eager to change that in front of their fans.

Gotham, meanwhile, battled to a 1-1 draw with Seattle despite playing down a player late. Gabi Portilho was the difference-maker, scoring in her NWSL debut and showing flashes of her creativity on the wing. With Gotham riding an 11-match unbeaten home streak, Portilho’s attacking energy could be key to breaking through Orlando’s defense.
