Week 18 of the NWSL season promises high-stakes drama as teams scramble for crucial points in the race to the playoffs. With the postseason just around the corner, every match feels like a tipping point, especially for those on the playoff bubble. The intensity peaks as top contenders like Orlando Pride, Washington Spirit, Kansas City Current, and Gotham FC jockey for the top seed, while teams like Bay FC, Angel City FC, and Racing Louisville fight to keep their playoff hopes alive.

To cap it off, this weekend will be bittersweet as San Diego Wave bids farewell to a legend, with Alex Morgan suiting up for her final match. We have all the details here!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Here is the full NWSL schedule for the weekend:

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. Seattle Reign FC - 10:00 PM EST

Where to watch: Prime Video

Seattle Reign FC head into their clash against Angel City FC riding a wave of momentum, having secured consecutive wins for the first time this season. Their recent 2-0 victory over Racing Louisville saw Sofia Huerta convert a penalty, making the Reign perfect from the spot in 2024. Historically dominant in this fixture with seven wins in nine meetings (D1 L1), the Reign are aiming for their first back-to-back road wins since 2022. Angel City – buoyed by Sydney Leroux’s late-game heroics against Chicago, the return of Christen Press, and Alyssa Thompson’s recent form – have similar aspirations as Reign, and will be fighting to break into a playoff spot and another home victory.

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs. Portland Thorns FC - 12:30 PM EST

Where to watch: CBS, Paramount+

Portland Thorns face a huge test this Saturday as they visit the Washington Spirit after losing back-to-back matches against Gotham FC and Bay FC. Despite their recent struggles, the Thorns have historically thrived in Washington, winning four of their last six road games there. They face a huge task in fending off the Washington attack bolstered by a 4–1 win over Kansas City in their last home game. But with Sophia Smith netting her 11th goal of the season last weekend, Portland will be bringing some fire power of their own to the nation’s capital.

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. Utah Royals FC - 7:30 PM EST

Where to watch: ION

The Utah Royals, riding a four-game winning streak across all competitions, host the Kansas City Current in a rematch of their May meeting, which saw the Current claim a narrow 1–0 victory. Utah’s resurgence has been powered by Claudia Zornoza, who recently became the third Spanish player in NWSL history to record both a goal and an assist in a match. Unfortunately for Utah, however, Kansas City forward Temwa Chawinga is in record-breaking form, scoring in seven consecutive games and leading the Golden Boot race with 14 goals and 6 assists. Furthermore, after their recent defeat, Kansas City will be highly motivated to turn things around as they head into the final stretch of the season, aiming for a playoff spot and maybe even their first NWSL Shield.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Racing Louisville FC - 10:00 PM EST

Where to watch: ION

Bay FC takes on Racing Louisville this Saturday evening in San Jose, looking to build on their first multi-goal victory of the season when they defeated Portland away last weekend. Rachel Hill’s goal and assist in that match made her the second Bay FC player to achieve the feat, and has certainly earned her a spot on the starting lineup. Racing Louisville, meanwhile, will look to bounce back from a narrow 3–2 loss to Seattle, where Ary Borges and Taylor Flint both netted headers but were unable to overcome Reign’s defense. In their inaugural meeting, Bay FC secured a 1–0 road win over Louisville, thanks to a penalty by Asisat Oshoala. They’ll look to replicate that success on home soil.

Matchup: Gotham FC vs. Houston Dash - 1:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ESPN, ESPN+, ESPN Deportes

Gotham FC hosts Houston Dash with both teams looking to claim much needed points after being defeated in their most recent matches. Gotham has been formidable at home, recording shutout wins in their last three home matches, but were held scoreless by Orlando last Sunday. Houston, meanwhile, will be eager to rebound from their 3–1 loss to Utah where they ended a six-match scoreless streak and finally found the back of the net. They'll face a tough challenge this Sunday, as Gotham FC boasts the league's second-best defensive record, having conceded just 15 goals all season.

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Orlando Pride - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+, Golazo, Paramount+

Orlando Pride heads into their match against Chicago Red Stars with their impressive unbeaten NWSL record on the line, having gone 19 games without a loss this season. Chicago, winless in their last two matches, will look to send Orlando home with their first one of the season and claim some much needed points to secure their playoff position. Mallory Swanson, who has scored seven goals against Orlando in nine league matches and is in fine form this summer, will be key to their attack.

Matchup: San Diego Wave vs. North Carolina Courage - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBS Sports Network, Paramount+, ESPN2, ESPN+, Prime Video and NWSL+

San Diego Wave looks to end their recent bad form as they face North Carolina Courage, a team they’ve never lost to in their four previous meetings (W1 D3). North Carolina, on the other hand, has been dominant at home with 25 points. However, this is San Diego’s home and with the added incentive of honoring their legendary forward Alex Morgan in her final match, they’ll be extra motivated to claim victory this weekend.
