NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

KEY REMATCHES

The North Carolina Courage take on the Orlando Pride on Saturday night in a rematch of the first 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup match on April 19. The last Challenge Cup game between these two ended in a 1-1 draw. Midfielder Denise O’Sullivan was the hero for the Courage, scoring the game tying goal in extra time. With O’Sullivan away from the team representing Ireland at the World Cup, the Courage will need more scoring power from the rest of the roster, which does not seem to be a problem after last week’s six goal outing against the Washington Spirit. Orlando enters the game still searching for their first Challenge Cup win of the season. Portland Thorns FC will take on Angel City FC on Saturday night in a rematch of one of the most exciting Challenge Cup games this season. On May 31, Portland defeated Angel City 3-2 with a game winning goal from forward Morgan Weaver in extra time. Since then, Portland is 1-1-0 in Challenge Cup play while Angel City is 1-0-0, picking up a much-needed win against San Diego Wave FC. Angel City sits just two points behind Portland for second place in the West Region as they look to close the gap this weekend.

CLINCHING SCENARIOS

Racing Louisville FC can clinch a Challenge Cup Semifinals berth with a win, loss or draw this week. A win automatically secures a spot for Racing in the top four. A draw clinches a top four seed if the North Carolina Courage draw or lose and a top three seed if the Kansas City Current lose. If Racing loses, the club could still clinch a semifinal berth with a North Carolina loss along with a Portland Thorns loss or draw. Racing is also the only team this weekend with the chance of clinching a top 2 seed. If Racing wins, they can clinch a top two seed and a semifinal home game if the Current and either NJ/NY Gotham FC or OL Reign lose or draw. The club can clinch the top overall seed in the Challenge Cup with a win if the Current, Gotham FC and OL Reign all lose or draw. OL Reign can also clinch a top three seed and a Semifinals berth with a win and can also secure a top three seed with a draw if the Portland Thorns lose or draw. If OL Reign loses, the team can still clinch if Portland also loses. If the Kansas City Current win this week, they will clinch a semifinal berth if the Thorns lose or draw and the Courage also lose. The Current can also secure their spot in the Challenge Cup Semifinals with a win if the Thorns and Gotham FC both lose or draw and the Courage also draw.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

HAMILTON’S HEROICS

After a hat trick in last week’s game, Kansas City Current forward Kristen Hamilton is in position to make history. Hamilton is two goals away from tying the club record for most goals in a single Challenge Cup tournament with five, a record which she set herself last season. Two more goals would also tie Hamilton with Debinha for the most Challenge Cup goals all time at 12.

ASSIST LEADERS

Kansas City defender Hailie Mace and Houston Dash forward María Sánchez are the only two players with five assists in Challenge Cup history. That list could be expanded this weekend, as OL Reign’s Elysse Bennett, Portland’s Meghan Klingenberg and Racing’s Carson Pickett all have four.

GAMES PLAYED TRACKER

Only seven players have appeared in 20 Challenge Cup games, but seven more could join the list this week, including Kansas City Currents’ Cece Kizer, Angel City FC’s Katie Johnson and Savannah McCaskill, Portland Thorns FC’s Kelli Hubly and Meghan Klingenberg, San Diego Wave FC’s Christen Westphal and Washington Spirit’s Ashley Hatch. Hubly has a chance to join Racing Louisville FC attacker Paige Monaghan and Houston Dash defender Katie Lind as the only players to reach 20 Challenge Cup games started. Hatch’s next appearance will tie her with midfielder Ashley Sanchez for most Challenge Cup appearances in Washington Spirit history with 20. Lo'eau LaBonta, Kristen Hamilton and Desiree Scott would become the first players to start 10 Challenge Cup games for the Kansas City Current with their next starts. Dani Weatherholt and Jasmyne Spencer could become the first to reach this milestone for Angel City, while Taylor Kornieck looks to be the first to accomplish the feat for the San Diego Wave. With Racing midfielder Lauren Milliet’s next appearance, she will become the first in club history to reach 15. Two Courage players can tie records this week. Defender Kaleigh Kurtz will watch Denise O’Sullivan’s club record of 18 Challenge Cup appearances, while goalkeeper Katelyn Rowland can tie O’Sullivan’s club record of 17 Challenge Cup starts. OL Reign defender Lauren Barnes has the opportunity to tie Sofia Huerta’s club records for Challenge Cup starts (13) and appearances (16).

UKG NWSL CHALLENGE CUP WEEK 10 SCHEDULE

July 28, 2023

Washington Spirit vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | Audi Field | 7:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ OL Reign vs. San Diego Wave FC | Lumen Field | 10:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+

July 29, 2023

North Carolina Courage vs. Orlando Pride | WakeMed Soccer Park | 7:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Chicago Red Stars vs. Kansas City Current | SeatGeek Stadium | 8:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Houston Dash vs. Racing Louisville FC | Shell Energy Stadium | 8:30 p.m. ET | Paramount + Angel City FC vs. Portland Thorns FC | BMO Stadium | 10:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+
