With the start of the 2024 NWSL regular season around the corner, clubs continue to bolster their rosters. As teams have added talent throughfree agency , trades and the 2024 NWSL Draft , many clubs have also brought in players from overseas.

With the start of the 2024 NWSL regular season around the corner, clubs continue to bolster their rosters. As teams have added talent through free agency, trades and the 2024 NWSL Draft, many clubs have also brought in players from overseas.Below is a collection of notables about some of the international players set to join the NWSL in 2024.

Linda Motlhalo (South Africa) – Racing Louisville FC

Racing Louisville’s roster now includes South African midfielder Linda Motlhalo, who previously played for the Houston Dash in 2018. The 25-year-old returns to the NWSL on a two-year contract after tallying four goals and seven assists in 32 appearances for Glasgow City last season, leading the club to a Scottish Women’s Premier League title. Motlhalo plays alongside former Racing forward Thembi Kgatlana on South Africa’s national team, winning the 2022 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations and appearing in two Women’s World Cups. The Banyana Banyana star made four starts at the 2023 World Cup and scored a goal while helping South Africa reach the knockout stage for the first time.

Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) - Bay FC

Bay FC signed a world-class talent in Nigerian international Asisat Oshoala, acquiring the forward through a transfer with FC Barcelona of Spain’s Liga F. In five seasons with Barcelona, Oshoala scored 107 goals while helping the club win four league titles, three Spanish Super Cups, three Copa de la Reina titles and two UEFA Women’s Champions League titles. She also won the 2016 FA Cup with Arsenal before earning consecutive league titles with Dalian in China. The 29-year-old forward has been named African Women’s Footballer of the Year six times and is a two-time Ballon D’or nominee. Oshoala has scored in each of the last three World Cups, helping Nigeria reach the Round of 16 in 2019 and 2023.

Casey Phair (South Korea) – Angel City FC

Angel City FC added to their talented young core by adding South Korean forward Casey Phair through the NWSL’s U-18 Entry Mechanism. At just 16 years old, Phair is the youngest player to appear in the Women’s World Cup and is Angel City’s youngest player in franchise history. Born in South Korea, the young phenom moved to Exeter, New Hampshire and then Warren Township, New Jersey, where she trained with Players Development Academy (PDA). Phair played one season at Pingry School, recording 25 goals and seven assists in 15 matches as a high school freshman, recording three consecutive hat tricks and a five-goal game. The first Korean American to play for the South Korea national team, Phair has signed a three-year contract with Angel City.

Maxi Rall (Germany) - Chicago Red Stars

The Chicago Red Stars strengthened their defense with the addition of German national team veteran Maximiliane Rall, acquiring the defender via transfer from FC Bayern Munich. Rall spent the last three seasons with the Bavarian powerhouse, amassing 15 goals and four assists in 40 games played and winning a Frauen-Bundesliga title in 2022. Rall joins Chicago on a one-year contract with a mutual option for 2025.

Feli Rauch (Germany) – North Carolina Courage

The North Carolina Courage added to one of 2023’s best defenses, acquiring German defender Feli Rauch via transfer from VfL Wolfsburg of the Frauen-Bundesliga and signing her to a two-year contract. The 27-year-old notched eight goals and 20 assists in 80 matches over the last five seasons, including two assists in five matches this season before transferring to the NWSL. Rauch led Wolfsburg to two Frauen-Bundesliga titles and four straight DFB Pokal Frauen (Women’s German Cup) titles. She has four goals in 36 appearances for Germany. She made one start at last summer’s Women’s World Cup in the group stage game vs. Morocco.

Ji So-Yun (South Korea) - Seattle Reign FC

Seattle Reign FC replenished its midfield depth with the addition of South Korean international Ji So-Yun. Ji joins Seattle on a two-year contract after spending the last two seasons in the WK League, winning Midfielder of the Year in consecutive seasons and leading Suwon FC to the championship match in 2023. Before her time with Suwon FC, the 32-year-old star spent eight seasons with Chelsea in the Women’s Super League, winning six league titles, four FA Cups, two League Cups and a Community Shield. Ji totaled 68 goals over 210 appearances with Chelsea. She is also the all-time caps (154) and scoring (69) leader for the South Korean national team.

Bia Zaneratto (Brazil) - Kansas City Current

The Kansas City Current signed Brazilian forward Bia Zaneratto, reuniting her with World Cup teammates Debinha and Lauren. Zaneratto has earned more than 100 caps for Brazil, appearing in four FIFA World Cups and two Olympic games, and has scored 36 goals in her international career. The veteran forward spent the last four seasons with Palmeiras in Brazil, serving as a team captain in 2022. Zaneratto scored 31 goals and started in 40 of her 43 matches with the club before joining the Current on a one-year contract with a club option for 2025.
