How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

For details on specific matches and where to watch in these territories, click here.

Matchup: Racing Louisville FC vs. Washington Spirit - 8 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime Video

The third highest scoring team in the league, Washington Spirit (5-3-3), is headed to Louisville for a Friday night showdown. Racing Louisivlle FC (1-1-5) will have their work cut out for them as they seek to bottle the attack of the Spirit’s dynamic duo, Croix Bethune and Ouleye Sarr, collectively with 6 goals and 5 assists between the both of them. On the other side of the field, Reilyn Turner and Uchenna Kanu will be just as dangerous.

Start your weekend right with the crew at Prime for what promises to be an action-packed Friday NWSL After Dark!

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. Bay FC - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

Bay FC (2-6-0) hasn’t been thirsting for victory ever since their triumphant home match against Reign FC on April 14. They’re set to play the undefeated Orlando Pride (5-0-3) in Florida for the first match of the evening and it’s one you won’t want to miss.

Bay FC supporters are hoping Racheal Kundananji – whose absence was felt last weekend when she was sidelined with injury – can return to face off against her Zambian teammate, Barbra Banda. Banda has been a formidable goal-scoring force ever since her debut. Will she propel her team to another victory or will Bay FC find their groove and put an end to Orlando's unbeaten streak?

Matchup: Portland Thorns FC vs. Seattle Reign FC - 10 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

The Cascadia Rivalry is legendary for its on field and off field intensity, and this Saturday’s latest iteration surely won’t disappoint, even without the huge presence of recently retired Megan Rapinoe. Both Reign FC (2-5-1) and Thorns FC (4-3-1) stumbled out of the gate at the beginning of the season, but have since been able to find their footing and secure crucial points in recent matches.

It’s the dawn of a new era for this storied rivalry, who will set the tone by claiming victory in Providence Park?

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Utah Royals FC - 5:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Everything is going according to plan for the Chicago Red Stars (4-3-1), who return home this weekend after handily defeating Bay FC in the Bay Area. Meanwhile, Utah Royals FC (1-6-1) may have faced an uphill battle this season, but there's a glimmer of hope as they showed improvements in possession and chance creation during their recent clash in San Diego. With a focus on building chemistry and fine tuning their defense, their squad has what it takes to claim points.

Will they find victory in Chi-Town against the steadfast defending of Sam Staab and Natalia Kuikka? Or will the offensive prowess of Ally Schlegel, Mal Swanson, and Penelope Hocking overwhelm them, leaving Utah empty-handed once again?

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. North Carolina Courage - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

The Current (5-0-3) recently encountered frustration with two consecutive low-scoring or scoreless draws, leaving them eager to make up lost ground in the standings, particularly with the looming threat of the Pride. However, their focus now must shift to their upcoming Sunday clash against the North Carolina Courage (4-4-0).

The Courage have struggled in front of goal the last two matches, losing them both and only scoring a single goal total. But with midfielder Ashley Sanchez settling into her role and finding her rhythm within the squad, they’re more dangerous than ever, especially as they seek to end Kansas City’s unbeaten streak and leave Missouri with all three points.

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. Houston Dash - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

One of the grittiest contenders in the league, Angel City FC (3-3-1) has entertained fans this season with their staunch defending (defenders Madi Curry and Sarah Gorden have been essential to their success) and goal scoring exploits of forwards Claire Emslie and Sydney Leroux. They’re hosting the Houston Dash (1-4-3) for a Mother’s Day clash and looking to give their home fans at BMO Stadium a victory to redeem themselves after their late game loss against the Current a few weeks ago.

Will the Dash seize this opportunity to turn the tide of their season, or will 22,000 Angelenos leave BMO Stadium celebrating a victory?

Matchup: San Diego Wave vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

It’s the last fixture of the weekend in what is surely one of the most anticipated matches so far — the reigning Shield winners versus the defending Champions. Last time these two faced off was in the 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup before the start of the regular season, where the Wave (3-3-1) lifted their second major hardware in franchise history. The Wave had a narrow victory thanks to a late game goal from forward Alex Morgan, but the Gotham FC (3-2-2) they played in March is a markedly different team than the one they’ll be playing on Sunday. Gotham FC’s new offseason signings have now had a chance to settle in and with the return of forward Lynn Williams from injury, it’s anyone’s game.

Will Jaedyn Shaw wreak havoc on the visiting team’s back line or will Gotham FC remain composed and ready to capitalize on opportunities for counter attacks? Three pivotal points are on the line for whomever comes away the victor.
