NEW YORK (July 19, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced San Diego Wave FC as the host of the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light. Returning to the west coast for the first time since 2018, the league final will be held at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California on Saturday, November 11.

NEW YORK (July 19, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced San Diego Wave FC as the host of the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light. Returning to the west coast for the first time since 2018, the league final will be held at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California on Saturday, November 11.

“We’re thrilled to have San Diego Wave FC as our host for this season’s Championship match,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “With top-notch facilities, a passionate soccer community and a favorable coastal climate, San Diego sets the perfect stage for our marquee event. Many thanks to everyone at Wave FC and Snapdragon Stadium for their efforts in making this celebration of our league a reality. We look forward to welcoming fans in November for another exciting season finale.” “We are extremely proud and honored to have been selected to host the 2023 NWSL Championship game,” said San Diego Wave FC President Jill Ellis. “This gives us another significant opportunity to welcome the world’s game to San Diego, and we could not be prouder of our fans for embracing our club and creating the passionate atmosphere that is giving us the opportunity to bring this event to Snapdragon Stadium.” “We could not be more excited to play a part in bringing the NWSL Championship to San Diego,” said Sports San Diego CEO Mark Neville. “This event will cap off a spectacular first year of soccer events in Snapdragon Stadium.” Opened in August of 2022, Bashar Field at Snapdragon Stadium serves as the home of Wave FC as well as the San Diego State Aztecs football program and the San Diego Legion of Major League Rugby. When used for soccer-specific events, the venue seats 32,000 spectators. Last September, Wave FC played its inaugural home match at the stadium in front of a sellout crowd of 32,000, breaking the league’s previous single-game attendance record. To register for priority access to tickets for the 2023 NWSL Championship, please visit here. The 2023 NWSL playoffs will feature the top six teams at the end of the regular season, with the top two seeds earning a first-round bye to the semifinals. The quarterfinals are set to begin October 22 and will air across CBS Sports Network and Paramount+. Semifinal matches will take place on November 5 on CBS Sports Network ahead of the Championship match on November 11. For the second-straight season, the 2023 Ally NWSL Championship, presented by CarMax, will be staged in primetime at 8 p.m. ET on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+. All playoff matches will stream outside of the U.S. on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com and across the league’s various international platforms. A variety of programming will surround this year’s Championship, including the return of Fan Fest. More details on all ancillary events will be announced at a later date.
