NEW YORK (May 28, 2024) – The National Women’s Soccer League and LIGA MX Femenil today announced further details for the first-ever NWSL X LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup, including broadcast details for both English and Spanish-language distribution in the U.S., playoff locations and competition rules and regulations.

Debuting this season as part of a groundbreaking collaboration between the two leagues, the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup kicks off July 19 featuring all 14 NWSL clubs and the six teams with the most points achieved in LIGA MX Femenil Clausura and Apertura during 2023, including Tigres UANL, Club América, Chivas de Guadalajara, Rayadas de Monterrey, Pachuca and Tijuana.

The tournament will consist of 30 group stage contests followed by a four-team semifinal round on August 6. CPKC Stadium, home of the Kansas City Current, in Kansas City, Missouri, will host the doubleheader semifinal round. The championship match will be staged at Toyota Field in San Antonio, Texas, on Friday, October 25.

CBS Sports will be the exclusive English-language distributor of all 33 Summer Cup games, with every match set to stream live on Paramount+, 11 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Golazo Network and 12 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Network, including the semifinals and championship match.

TUDN, the sports programming branch of Spanish-language network Univision, will air three group stage matches while NWSL+ will serve as the Spanish-language home for the remaining group stage matches in the U.S.

Details on international distribution will be shared in the coming weeks.

NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup will feature five groups of four teams consisting of both NWSL and LIGA MX Femenil clubs, with each club competing in three matches. Of the five group winners, the four clubs with the most points will advance to the semifinals.

Rules and regulations for the 2024 NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup can be found here.

A complete schedule with updated kick times and broadcast details is below. For more information about NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup, click here.

About NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About LIGA MX Femenil

LIGA MX Femenil is the women's professional football league in Mexico that started its history in 2017 and is made up by 18 Clubs with different venues around the country. It plays two tournaments per year: Apertura and Clausura, plus a Champions match at the end of each season. The headquarters of the organization are located in Toluca, State of Mexico, in the facilities of the Mexican Football Federation. In its almost seven years of history, LIGA MX Femenil has achieved audience and attendance records such as the Apertura 2023 second leg Final between Tigres UANL vs. América, which was the most watched in history with a reach of 3.9 million viewers, or the attendance record set for a Final with 58,156 fans at an América vs. Pachuca match. For more information www.ligafemenil.mx.
