Week 20 is shaping up to be another wild weekend, and it starts off strong with a crucial matchup between the third place San Diego Wave and sixth place Gotham FC. With a pair of unstoppable keepers, a new Gotham midfielder, and a must win on both sides, it’s sure to be a match worth staying up late for.

You can watch San Diego Wave FC vs. Gotham FC at 10 PM ET on Prime Video.

READ MORE: WEEK 20 PREVIEW: THE SHIELD RACE HEATS UP

Gotham made history this week with a record intra-league trade for Jaedyn Shaw, sending $1.25 million to the North Carolina Courage. Adding Shaw into the mix only bolsters a strong Gotham midfield made up of Rose Lavelle and Jaelin Howell. It’s unclear if Shaw will get any minutes this weekend, but it would be a poetic moment to make her Gotham debut against her first NWSL club.

Two of the league’s most well-respected keepers are going head-to-head Friday night. San Diego’s Kailen Sheridan and Gotham’s Ann-Katrin Berger are both formidable in goal, holding down the backline. Sheridan is just one save shy of 600 career stops, and this season alone, she has five clean sheets while Berger has seven. It won’t be easy to get on the board for either side.

After a hot start to the season, the Wave have struggled to get momentum going in the back half. Since returning from the break, San Diego has won just once. In the last three games, they’ve been held scoreless and suffered two losses. The last time these two teams met, the Wave won, 1-0, and a win here would be a much needed boost in the home stretch of the season. Expect the usual creators Delphine Cascarino and Kenza Dali to drive the attack, with Kimmi Ascanio and Adriana Leon tasked with finishing chances to finally break the scoring drought.

On the other side, Gotham are riding a three game unbeaten streak. It should come as no surprise that Esther González remains an offensive threat. Her 12 goals on the season puts her second in the Golden Boot race behind Temwa Chawinga (separated by Chawinga’s two assists). Gotham’s momentum is also fueled by Jaelin Howell, who has scored in back-to-back games.

Stop us if you’ve heard this before: the playoff race is incredibly close. Every game matters in the NWSL, and this one is no different, especially with the chance to play a playoff game at home on the line. Just three points separate San Diego and Gotham in the standings, so both teams will be fighting to walk away with the win and three points.

READ MORE: NWSL PLAYOFF SCENARIOS HEADED INTO WEEK 20
