AEG to Host Coachella Valley Invitational Featuring 20 Clubs From MLS and NWSL; February 1-22, 2025 at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA

The 2025 Edition of CVI is the Largest Integration Between Major Men’s and Women’s Professional Sports Leagues in North America

Passes Available Beginning Wednesday, Dec. 18 at 2pm PST

INDIO, Calif. (December 17, 2024) - 2025 Coachella Valley Invitational (CVI) will bring together a record 20 professional men’s and women’s teams for the largest-ever preseason event in North American professional soccer history it was announced by event developers and operators AEG, the world’s leading sports and live entertainment company. With the support of MLS and NWSL, the CVI will host players, coaches and management from each of the clubs who will participate in preseason matches, training sessions and organizational meetings at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, CA.

Passes for all exhibition matches will go on sale to the public this Wednesday, December 18 at 2pm PT at www.coachellavalleyinvitational.com . The initial schedule of all 26 mens and womens matches (listed below) is highlighted by appearances from 2024 MLS Cup Finalists LA Galaxy and New York Red Bulls, the first open to the public match played by the MLS’ newest team San Diego FC and the CVI debut of NWSL clubs Houston Dash and Seattle Reign FC.

In addition to providing each of the participating MLS and NWSL teams the opportunity to prepare for their upcoming 2025 seasons in optimum weather at world class facilities, CVI will also give fans unprecedented access to watch some of MLS’s and NWSL’s most decorated and popular players and teams in an intimate setting, along with unique fan experiences.

COACHELLA VALLEY INVITATIONAL NWSL SCHEDULE

Sunday, Feb. 16

Angel City FC v Portland Thorns FC at 11:00 a.m. PT

San Diego Wave FC v Houston Dash at 12:00 p.m. PT

Bay FC v Seattle Reign FC at 1:00 p.m. PT

Saturday, Feb. 22

Portland Thorns FC v Houston Dash at 10:00 a.m. PT

San Deigo Wave FC v Bay FC at 11:00 a.m. PT

Angel City FC v Seattle Reign FC at 12:00 p.m. PT

NWSL clubs participating in the 2025 Coachella Valley Invitational include:

Angel City FC

Bay FC

Houston Dash

Portland Thorns

San Diego Wave FC

Seattle Reign FC

“AEG is proud to once again partner with the MLS and NWSL to host clubs from across North America in a truly unique setting for fans, players, coaches and management,” said Dan Beckerman, President & CEO of AEG. “Coachella is an international showcase for the best in music, and AEG, through Goldenvoice and the LA Galaxy, are excited to utilize this setting to showcase the best in soccer. Palm Springs is an ideal destination with its vast infrastructure, resort hotels and hospitality options to be the host city for this impressive group of teams and their fans.”

“The Coachella Valley Invitational is an excellent preseason event for our participating teams to prepare for the upcoming NWSL campaign,” said NWSL Chief Sporting Director Tatjana Haenni. “The tournament provides an opportunity for teams to fine-tune their strategies, integrate new players and build momentum ahead of the regular season.”

“The Coachella Valley Invitational has become a premier preseason event in global soccer, thanks to AEG’s expertise in producing world-class events,” said MLS Commissioner Don Garber. “With state-of-the-art facilities, professional organization, and a unique environment, Coachella provides MLS clubs with a terrific opportunity to prepare for the 2025 upcoming season.”

With more than 250 acres of lush gardens and pristine polo fields, Empire Polo Club is one of the finest facilities for outdoor sporting events and executive conferences, in addition to hosting the annual Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival and Stagecoach Festival. The fields at Empire Polo Club are operated by Goldenvoice, the Los Angeles-based concert promoter and live event company owned by AEG Presents.

“We are thrilled to return for the fourth consecutive year to the Empire Polo Club where MLS and NWSL fans can participate and enjoy this enhanced preseason experience,” said Kara Korber, “Sr. Director Business Development, AEG. “We continue to work closely with the leagues and the teams to further develop this comprehensive preseason training model that will be our biggest event in 2025.”

“The Coachella Valley Invitational is a fantastic event that will enhance our preparations for the upcoming season,” said Angela Hucles Mangano, President of Women’s Soccer, Houston Dash. “I was fortunate to watch the first edition of the preseason tournament and look forward to an expanded format that allows us to face top NWSL opposition.”

“The 2025 season is right around the corner and we’re excited to have dates on the calendar circled for our club’s preparations,” said Bay FC Head of Football and Interim Sporting Director Matt Potter. “We set a high bar with a strong first year, and the preseason is where work will continue to build off our 2024 season and establish our goals and identity as a group for the 2025 season.”

“We are thrilled to participate in the Coachella Valley Invitational as we set our sights on the 2025 NWSL season,” said Seattle Reign FC Chief Business Officer Maya Mendoza-Exstrom. “This event, the largest preseason event in North American professional soccer history, provides an excellent opportunity to compete against top-tier opponents as we prepare for an always tough NWSL season. We are working hard on 2025 already, and this event is a key part of our strategy to prepare our team to start the 2025 campaign successfully.”

The LA Galaxy Foundation Golf Tournament will also return to the Coachella Valley on Friday, February 7th at Desert Willow Golf Resort. The event will give fans an opportunity to hit the links alongside LA Galaxy Players, Coaches, and Alumni while enjoying premium giveaways, games, and prizes. For more information, please email Gabriel Osollo at gosollo@lagalaxy.com.

For access to an exclusive presale and additional ticketing information, fans are encouraged to sign up at CoachellaValleyInvitational.com and follow @coachellavalleyinvitational on Instagram for the latest updates. Early bird pricing will be available beginning Wednesday, December 18, and end on Thursday, January 9.

Click HERE for Coachella Valley Invitational assets, including Empire Polo Club imagery, CVI logos and team logos.

ABOUT THE COACHELLA VALLEY INVITATIONAL

Developed and operated by AEG, The Coachella Valley Invitational (CVI) is the largest preseason event in North American professional soccer history and in 2025 will feature 20 Major League Soccer (MLS) and National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) clubs playing preseason exhibition matches, training and holding organizational meetings at one site, leading up to the start of their seasons. The upcoming edition of the CVI is the largest integration between major men’s and women’s professional sports leagues in North America. The Empire Polo Club hosts a variety of special events, corporate meetings and private gatherings including the annual Coachella Music and Arts Festival and Stagecoach country festival in Indio, CA. Open to the public, MLS preseason matches are set to take place February 1-15 with NWSL matches slated for February 16-22. For more information and to purchase event passes, visit coachellavalleyinvitational.com.
