Gotham FC 2-1 Kansas City Current

Utah Royals 3-2 Bay FC

Seattle Reign 1-0 Chicago Stars

San Diego Wave 1-1 Denver Summit

Racing Louisville 4-1 Boston Legacy

Portland Thorns 2-1 Orlando Pride

North Carolina Courage 2-3 Houston Dash

Angel City FC 1-1 Washington Spirit

Kansas City rookie Amelia White scored just 22 seconds into Friday's match against Gotham, tying teammate Michelle Cooper for the fastest regular-season goal in NWSL history.

Sam Kerr scored the 80th regular-season goal and 19th game-winner of her NWSL career as Gotham extended its unbeaten streak to eight matches, one shy of the club record.

Evelyn Ijeh scored her 10th goal of the season in her 18th NWSL appearance, becoming the second-fastest player in league history to reach 10 regular-season goals. Only Kim Little, who reached 10 in 11 appearances, did it faster.

Trinity Rodman scored her 10th goal of the season, setting a new single-season career high.

Ashley Sanchez and Tara Rudd both surpassed 10,000 career regular-season minutes. Rudd reached the milestone having played all of those minutes with Washington.

Racing Louisville earned its third consecutive regular-season win for the first time in club history, while Kayla Fischer became the sixth different Racing player to record a brace this season, an NWSL single-season record.

After getting a first-half goal called back, Ally Sentnor sent home again, an equalizer in the 85th minute for her first Angel City goal.

Utah Royals made a little NWSL history on Friday night.

Miyabi Moriya, Narumi Miura and Mina Tanaka each found the back of the net in Utah's 3-2 win over Bay FC, marking the first time three different Japanese players have scored for the same team in a single NWSL match. The victory also kept Utah's impressive run of form rolling and sent the Royals into the weekend sitting third in the standings.

Fourteen months after suffering a torn ACL, Caiya Hanks stepped onto the field at Providence Park for her first competitive appearance since the injury and, just minutes later, delivered the winner for the Portland Thorns.

Hanks wasn't the only player celebrating a meaningful return in Matchweek 17. Washington Spirit forward Ashley Hatch returned to the field following maternity leave, while Angel City's Sydney Leroux made her return after stepping away from the game for a mental health break.​

Gotham FC entered Friday night looking for something they had never accomplished in the regular season: a win over Kansas City Current.

Midge Purce opened the scoring before Sam Kerr delivered another milestone moment, scoring the 80th regular-season goal of her NWSL career. Kansas City pulled one back, but Gotham held on for the 2-1 victory. The three points also kept Gotham firmly on top of the NWSL standings by the end of Matchweek 17.

Trinity Rodman notched her 10th goal of the season, hitting double digits for the first time in her career. To celebrate, she hit 'em with Michael Jackson moves.

Look out for Spider Midge! After scoring her third goal of the season for Gotham, Midge Purce hit the Spider Man celly.
