Sydney Leroux and Ali Riley are many things. They’re Angel City FC teammates and best friends. They’re both soccer legends in their own right, and now they are joining the ranks of NWSL stars getting into the media.

Leroux and Riley announced on Tuesday they are launching a new podcast, “BFFR.” The first episode airs on April 28, with new episodes dropping every Monday.

The podcast is inspired by their Instagram show of the same name that came to fruition last spring. It started with Leroux, Riley, a mini microphone, and unforgettable intros and quickly became a funny look inside the lives of them and their teammates.

On the first episode of the Instagram series, they described it as a “walking” and “living” podcast where they would show their lives in a candid way.

“It’s a low budget production,” Riley said, sitting on the floor at an airport.

“We are the budget,” Leroux said.

Funny how much can change in a year. Now, Leroux and Riley have the backing of AMP Media.

“Throughout their illustrious careers, Sydney and Ali have been at the forefront of the conversation around women in sports and beyond. They've established a deep connection with their fans through BFFR on social media, and now we're excited to expand their conversations and bring their authentic personalities to an even wider audience through AMP Media,” said Rich Cooke, VP of Audio Programming.

In the podcast trailer, Leroux and Riley gave every indication the hilarious, chaotic, and unfiltered energy that fans loved in the series will make up the new show, too.

“This is a show for anyone who's ever been called 'too much.' Too loud, too real, too emotional, too honest-we've heard it all. But 'too much' is exactly the right amount. BFFR is where we get to be unapologetically ourselves-funny, bold, unfiltered-and say all the things we've been saying behind the scenes for years. If you've ever said, 'I probably shouldn't say this,' we already did. Welcome to the chaos,” said Leroux in a press release.

“Syd and I have been through so many stages of life together, and while soccer is what we do, it's definitely not who we are. Women athletes have been put in boxes for way too long and this show is our opportunity to redefine what it means to be a woman in sports and media. We get to control the narrative, and our script is: there is no script. By being our authentic selves, we hope to empower our listeners to show up as exactly who they are,” said Riley.
