NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

CUT YOUR LOSSES Heading into Week 7, Portland Thorns FC and the Washington Spirit are the only remaining teams without a loss in the 2023 regular season. The Spirit and the Thorns are the first pair of teams in league history to remain unbeaten through six matches in the same season.

With a 3-0-3 record, the Spirit’s six-game unbeaten streak is the longest unbeaten start to a season in the club’s history. Dating back to last season, the Thorns (3-0-3) are unbeaten in their last 11 regular season matches, one game shy of tying the club's longest-ever unbeaten run in league play.

YOU(TH) AGAIN A familiar storyline threading through this young season, the NWSL’s youth corps continue to make an impressive on-field impact for their respective clubs. Last weekend, Portland Thorns FC midfielder Olivia Moultrie provided late heroics for the Thorns, scoring a game-tying goal in the 83rd minute to force a 3-3 draw against the North Carolina Courage and keep Portland’s unbeaten streak alive.

In just her third season in the league, Washington Spirit forward Trinity Rodman etched her name in another category of the NWSL record book, this time becoming the youngest player in league history to score 10 goals and 10 assists. With a goal and an assist in the Spirit’s 3-1 win against San Diego Wave FC, the Newport Beach, California native, who currently boasts three goals and two assists in the regular season, hit the 10-10 mark 14 days before her 21st birthday. Orlando Pride forward Amanda Allen made her NWSL debut last Saturday, making her the youngest player to compete for the Pride and the sixth-youngest player in league history. The Canadian international is also the youngest player on the current Canadian Women’s National Team roster. With an average age of 25.6 years, the Orlando Pride are the youngest team in the NWSL this season.

BRAZILIAN CONNECTION So far in 2023, a record 10 Brazilians call the NWSL home, more than any other season in the league. The talented South American contingent is headlined by Kansas City midfielder Debinha, who owns a league-high four goals through five regular-season contests. North Carolina forward Kerolin has also jumped out to a strong start in her second season with the Courage, adding three goals to her scoring ledger through six regular season matches.

Racing Louisville FC forward Ary Borges and Orlando striker Adriana have each scored their first NWSL goals, while NJ/NY Gotham FC defender Bruninha has found early success on the club’s back line, making four starts so far during the regular season.

RECORD AND MILESTONES

150 FOR THE HISTORY BOOKS Set to appear in game No. 150 this weekend, Chicago Red Stars goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher will become the first goalkeeper in NWSL history to appear in 150 regular-season contests. The milestone comes as the Stratford, Connecticut native inches closer to taking over the all-time regular season saves record from recently retired keeper Ashlyn Harris.

HELPING HAND Orlando Pride midfielder Erika Tymrak is the only player in league history to record an assist in every regular season. So far this season, Tymrak has two assists, including one in a 2-1 loss to Angel City and one in the club’s 3-1 win against San Diego in April.

KEEP IT 100 Houston Dash defender Allysha Chapman and Gotham FC forward Midge Purce are each one game shy of their 100th career regular season appearances. Chapman, who joined the league in 2015, began her career with the Dash and enjoyed stints with both the Boston Breakers and the North Carolina Courage before rejoining Houston in 2018, while Purce played with the Breakers and the Portland Thorns before being traded to the New Jersey/New York based club.

OFF THE PITCH

SALUTE TO MOMS This weekend, the NWSL honors all moms, including those who play, coach, and watch the league in celebration of Mother’s Day. With 14 moms currently playing in the league, five of whom could take the field on Sunday, this weekend’s matches are a testament to the ability of elite athletes to balance the demands of motherhood with the rigor of professional sports. The league salutes these remarkable players who inspire us all with their commitment and dedication to their families and sport.

MENTAL HEALTH AWARENESS In recognition of Mental Health Awareness Month, Chicago midfielder Cari Roccaro, who helped create the NWSL’s current mental health policies, including paid mental health leave for all players, was featured on CBS Sports’ “Mindset,” a series highlighting professional athletes and their mental health journeys.

WEEK 7 MATCH SCHEDULE

Friday, May 12, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. Chicago Red Stars | Lynn Family Stadium | 7:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

Houston Dash vs. Portland Thorns FC | Shell Energy Stadium | 8:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

Saturday, May 13, 2023

Angel City FC vs. Washington Spirit | BMO Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | Paramount+

**Sunday, May 14, 2023 ** North Carolina Courage vs. OL Reign | WakeMed Soccer Park | 3 p.m. ET | Paramount+

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Orlando Pride | Red Bull Arena | 5:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Kansas City Current vs. San Diego Wave FC | Children’s Mercy Park | 6 p.m. ET | Paramount+
