NEW YORK (June 8, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the launch of its 2023 Pride Campaign, comprised of a slate of initiatives that include significant partnerships with both the NWSL Players Association (NWSLPA) and LGBTQI+ advocacy group Athlete Ally, an updated PRIDE PLAYS HERE brand campaign, refreshed league Pride imagery and the painting of a Pride-themed soccer pitch in New York City. The launch of the 2023 Pride Campaign signifies NWSL’s commitment to building a stronger bond on and off the pitch, working collaboratively to foster inclusivity and uplift marginalized communities through education, support, and meaningful community partnerships.

NEW YORK (June 8, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the launch of its 2023 Pride Campaign, comprised of a slate of initiatives that include significant partnerships with both the NWSL Players Association (NWSLPA) and LGBTQI+ advocacy group Athlete Ally, an updated PRIDE PLAYS HERE brand campaign, refreshed league Pride imagery and the painting of a Pride-themed soccer pitch in New York City. The launch of the 2023 Pride Campaign signifies NWSL’s commitment to building a stronger bond on and off the pitch, working collaboratively to foster inclusivity and uplift marginalized communities through education, support, and meaningful community partnerships.

“We’re excited to kick off this year’s slate of initiatives in celebration of Pride,” said NWSL Chief Marketing Officer Julie Haddon. “The NWSL is committed to setting the standard as catalysts for significant and necessary progress in professional sports. We’re proud to champion Pride as a fundamental pillar of our league and to build a community experience for the players and fans that continue to make the NWSL the best, and most inclusive, sports league in the world.”

PRIDE PLAYS HERE The NWSL today released its PRIDE PLAYS HERE spot, a Pride-focused take on the league’s 2023 WE PLAY HERE campaign, a season-long, player-first brand initiative that captures the electricity and excitement of the league’s players, rivalries and competition.

PLAYING FOR PRIDE 365 CAMPAIGN Last Saturday, the NWSL kicked off a campaign in collaboration with the NWSLPA, the labor union that represents all NWSL Players, and Athlete Ally, a non-profit organization focused on promoting LGBTQI+ inclusion in sports by mobilizing athletes, teams and leagues to use their platform to champion equality. As part of Athlete Ally’s Playing for Pride 365 initiative, the league will donate $200 for every goal scored throughout Pride month that will go towards increasing inclusivity and acceptance for the LGBTQI+ community within sports. In addition, 16 NWSLPA members will participate in Athlete Ally’s Playing for Pride 365 campaign as Athlete Ally ambassadors.

"Athlete Ally is extremely grateful to the NWSL and the NWSL Players Association for their generous partnership and support during Pride and year-round," said Hudson Taylor, Founder and Executive Director of Athlete Ally. "Together, we are working to educate and activate soccer players and fans to champion LGBTQI+ inclusion in and through sports."

EXCLUSIVE NWSL PRIDE MERCHANDISE The league and its member clubs also launched exclusive Pride merchandise for the month of June, including team and NWSL-branded t-shirts, hoodies and scarves. Along with the league’s monetary pledge for goals scored throughout the month, the NWSL will donate 10 percent of the proceeds from all NWSL Pride merchandise sales to the Playing for Pride 365 campaign.

In addition, the NWSLPA launched a custom Pride t-shirt in partnership with fan apparel partner BreakingT and a Pride-themed trading card set with Parkside Collectibles. The NWSLPA will donate all its royalties from the sales of Pride-themed merchandise to Athlete Ally. NWSLPA’s Pride shirt may be purchased from BreakingT here, and the Parkside Pride trading card set may be purchased here.

COMMUNITY PRIDE PITCH The NWSL has teamed up with The Ground NYC, a local soccer facility in Chinatown, and Brooklyn-based LGBTQI+ artist Sophia Yeshi to create a community “Pride Pitch” featuring a custom piece of artwork from Yeshi that will remain on the pitch throughout the month of June. The Ground’s rooftop soccer pitch is available to the public for pick-up matches and other events, while also serving as a hub for athletes, fans, and soccer enthusiasts alike to come together in celebration of the LGBTQI+ community and the game of soccer.

“The design for the NWSL Pride community pitch was inspired by the notion of pride being in our DNA, and not being able to be separated from a player's performance,” said Yeshi. “The organic and overlapping shapes speak to the intersectionality and connectivity present in the game; As a queer artist, it’s been a privilege to create this design in honor of the LGBTQI+ community.”

REFRESHED NWSL BRAND DESIGN The NWSL has also updated its shield and jersey numbers that will be displayed on all team jerseys throughout the month of June. The new designs were brought to fruition by the league’s Creative Director Maureen Raisch, who took numbers one through nine and created a unique design for each digit in celebration of diversity. The rainbow colors of Pride run through each number individually, while also serving as a thread that joins them all together; Just as NWSL players, fans, teams, and the league overall are united in the greater mission of creating a more accepting and inclusive environment both on and off the pitch.

“The creative process in creating these designs started with a nod to just how significant Pride is within our league,” said Raisch. “Because the LGBTQI+ makes up such a significant part of our NWSL community on and off the pitch, the importance of Pride and acceptance touches anyone who has ever interacted with the NWSL, and that reminder helps to keep us grounded in our intentionality through design.” A full schedule of Pride matches can be seen below.
