Start spreading the news: Gotham FC now own the keys to the city.

After winning the 2025 NWSL Championship in San Jose, Gotham kept the party rolling crosscountry, ending at New York’s City Hall.

Jaedyn Shaw scored half of Gotham’s playoff goals and added an assist on a third. She knows a thing or two about performing under pressure, but walking up to address the crowd at City Hall, Shaw admitted she was nervous.

Stars, they’re just like us.

“It’s such an honor to be here in front of you all today, especially with my girls here with me as Champions,” Shaw said. “Thank you for taking a chance on me back in September and bringing me to this incredible community. Thank you, fans, for showing up loud at every game, especially in this past championship.”

And of course, Shaw couldn’t let the opportunity to bring back the unofficial motto of Gotham’s season.

“One last time, the quote heard around the league, underdogs my ass,” she said.

Captain Mandy Freeman has spent her entire NWSL career playing for the New York and New Jersey fans. She took her moment at the podium to reflect on how much has changed since

“I’ve had the unique experience of seeing the growth of this club, the growth of this fanbase and the growth of the love of soccer in the city,” Freeman said. “It’s a beautiful thing to witness.”

Gotham General Manager Yael Averbuch West said the region expects nothing but the best, and that’s a weight the club doesn’t take lightly.

“The New York and New Jersey sports community appreciates – actually to be honest – demands excellence, which is why it’s such an unbelievable honor to bring home this trophy to celebrate with you today,” she said.

And even she was not immune from the MVP’s peer pressure.

“I took a shot of Fireball with Rose \[Lavelle\] before this. I hope it goes okay. I had no choice,” Averbuch West said.

When Lavelle took the stage, MVP chants rang out, and even though she’s been completely unserious in her celebrations since Saturday, Lavelle took a moment for sincerity.

“When you get to do what you love with people you love it makes the journey that much sweeter,” Lavelle said.
