The ESPYs are one of the most glamorous nights in the sports world. Athletes from across all kinds of sports come together to celebrate their achievements and prove they can rock more than just a cool kit or uniform.

And NWSL players didn’t pass up an opportunity to stun on the red carpet.

Members of Angel City FC, San Diego Wave FC, and the USWNT showed up in style on July 16.

With Alex Morgan receiving the Icon Award, of course her former teammates came out in full force to be there. Sam Coffey and Rose Lavelle were among just some of the players representing the USWNT, which was nominated for Best Team. Adriana Leon, Gia Corley, Hillary Beall, Jordan Fusco, Kennedy Wesley, Kyra Carusa, Mel Barcenas, Nya Harrison, Perle Morroni, Quincy McMahon, Trinity Armstrong, and Trinity Byars represented the Wave.

Of course, they went full glam for the occasion, trading their boots for heels and their kits for gowns. With the ceremony happening a short drive from BMO Stadium – L.A. traffic notwithstanding – Angel City players descended on the ceremony in fashion.

Ali Riley, Alyssa Thompson, Gisele Thompson, Tierna Davidson, Savy King, Riley Tiernan, Angelina Anderson, Elizabeth Eddy, Claire Emslie, Kennedy Fuller, Macey Hodge, Alanna Kennedy, Evelyn Shores, and Katie Zelem all represented their city.

Earlier that morning, “Good Morning America” aired an interview with King, who was speaking publicly for the first time since she collapsed on the field in May. Walking the red carpet alongside her teammates in a stunning nude dress with diamond details, it was a moment that showed just how far King has come in just two short months post surgery.

The Thompson sisters didn’t miss an opportunity to flex their fashion taste, with Alyssa rocking a blazer dress and Gisele in a classic strapless black dress.

Across the board (read: Instagram feed), the girls were hyping each other up. The comments section on every post is filled with teammates and players across the league hyping each other up endlessly.

As competitive as NWSL players are on the field, if nothing else, they will be cheerleaders for each other off the pitch.
