School is out for summer but the NWSL is still in session for its first ever NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup! Part of a collaboration between two of the top professional women’s soccer leagues in the world, the NWSL and LIGA MX Femenil, the 33-match Summer Cup features all fourteen NWSL clubs and six LIGA MX Femenil clubs, and is broken into five groups of four clubs each.

Last weekend, NWSL clubs and six LIGA MX Femenil clubs faced off in the first round of group matches. We have the details here!

For information on schedule and how to watch.

Seattle Reign FC 2, Utah Royals FC 1

It was a rematch of the last regular season match for either club but the scoreline was vastly different. Without Ally Sentnor, the Royals’ leading goal scorer, Utah was unable to overcome Reign FC’s two goals. The first, a penalty in the 43rd minute converted by Olivia Athens, was followed shortly by a goal from Royals forward Cameron Tucker, who was in the right place at the right time for an easy tap-in. In the 77nd minute, however, the Reign retook the lead with a clinical Sofia Huerta header and then proceeded to hold the scoreline until the final whistle to claim all 3 points.

Chicago Red Stars 0 (4), Gotham FC 0 (5)

Gotham FC traveled to face the Red Stars on Saturday in a match where neither team could find the back of the net. The Red Stars, hampered by the absence of key offensive player Mal Swanson, struggled to capitalize on their opportunities and the match went straight to penalties. It was the first match of the tournament to be decided by a penalty shootout, bypassing extra time. Gotham FC emerged victorious after goalkeeper Cassie Miller made a spectacular save and all of Gotham's penalty takers successfully converted their shots.

North Carolina Courage 1 (5), Orlando Pride 1(4)

The North Carolina Courage hosted the Orlando Pride and although they were unable to defeat them in regular play, they overcame the Pride in the second penalty shoot out of the tournament. During regular play, the Courage took 20 shots with 6 on target and despite the rain, eventually found the back of the net thanks to a Manaka Matsukubo tap-in. Near the end of regular time, Pride defender Celia Jiménez breathed life into her squad when she capitalized on a rebounding goal clearance. At the final whistle, with the score tied, both squads lined up for a penalty shootout. The Courage was eventually declared victorious after stunning back-to-back saves from goalkeeper Marisa Bova.

Racing Louisville FC 3, C.F. Monterrey 1

In the first match between an NWSL side and LIGA MX Femenil side in the tournament, Louisville hosted Monterrey-based C.F. Monterrey and found victory. Las Rayadas opened the scoring in the 11th minute with a goal from Fátima Servin but were unable to deter Louisville from sending in lobs and crashing the box, resulting in a goal from the rookie Emma Sears and goals from Kayla Fischer and Ary Borges, both assisted by midfielder Savannah DeMelo. Louisville now leads Group E with 3 points, with the Courage in second.

Kansas City Current 3, Houston Dash 1

Unfortunately, the rematch between Kansas City Current and Houston Dash didn’t result in a famous River Goal but unlike the last time these two faced off in CPKC Stadium, scoring happened much earlier in the match. Michelle Cooper opened the scoring with a 1st minute goal, the second-fastest goal in KC History in all competitions. Cooper also has the record in Kansas City where she scored in 22 seconds in 2023. In the 20th minute, the Dash tied the scoreline thanks to a rocket launched from outside the box by Yuki Nagasato. In the second half, the Current retook the lead after Lo’eau LaBonta collected a loose ball in the box and sent it past Dash goalkeeper Erin McKinney. As an insurance goal, in the 83rd minute, Kristen Hamilton capitalized on a wayward pass in front of the box, dribbling it around McKinney and firing it into the back of the net. The final whistle sounded not long after and the Current claimed all 3 points.

San Diego Wave 3, Bay FC 1

Everyone loves a California Clash and Saturday’s Summer Cup edition did not disappoint. Expansion team Bay FC, although able to convert one of their chances in the 63rd minute, were otherwise unable to keep their Southern California rivals from peppering goalkeeper Emmie Allen in her debut. With 23 shots and 10 on target, the Wave were dominant in their offensive output with Kennedy Wesley, María Sánchez, and Amirah Ali all confidently finding the back of the net. Allen’s individual effort produced 7 quality saves but her defense was unable to keep up with the Wave’s press. The match ended with San Diego victorious and at the top of their group.

Angel City FC 2, Club América 1

Angel City's regular-season scoring woes were not evident on Saturday evening when they hosted América at Titan Stadium in Fullerton, CA. Rookie forward Kennedy Fuller broke the deadlock, skillfully receiving a pass at the top of the box, pivoting, and firing it past both the defender and the goalkeeper. Sydney Leroux then doubled Los Angeles' lead by pouncing on a loose ball in the box and, like Fuller, sending it past the defense and the keeper. Although América managed to score before the final whistle, they couldn't replicate their success, leaving Angel City with a well-earned victory.

Washington Spirit 2, C.F. Guadalajara 1

Las Chivas visited the United States capital on Sunday in the third Summer Cup matchup between an NWSL and LIGA MX Femenil side, and much like the two previous fixtures, were defeated. Paige Metayer opened the scoring with a perfectly placed header in the 13th minute, her first professional goal. Lena Silano doubled the Spirit’s lead in the early minutes of the second half after tapping in a low cross from teammate Brittany Ratcliffe. Chivas captain Alicia Cervantes, a player to watch this tournament, got her team on the board after finding the end of a curving free kick in the 69th minute but Guadalajara was not able to find the back of the net again before the final whistle. The Spirit now sit at the top of their group with Gotham FC in second.

Portland Thorns FC 5, Club Tijuana 0

In perhaps the most dominant showing of any team in the tournament so far, the Thorns scored five goals from five different goal scorers – Christine Sinclair, Olivia Wade-Katoa (her first professional goal), Izzy D’Aquila, Ana Dias, and Marissa Sheva (her first for Portland) – to overwhelm and overcome LIGA MX Femenil side, Club Tijuana. Tijuana had a few moments of brilliance with 2 shots on goal but weren’t able to keep possession of the ball long enough to challenge Portland’s very experienced and organized backline. Thorns goalkeeper Emily Alvarado made 2 key saves, earning her squad a clean sheet and helping them secure the top spot in their group.
