Entering the match, the Kansas City Current are riding high off a 3-0 rout of the Chicago Stars. The Houston Dash, meanwhile, are reeling after a blistering 4-1 defeat to Denver. The question is: What motivates a team more – coming off a definitive win or a three-goal loss? Kansas City’s Temwa Chawinga came back in a big way last weekend, scoring all three goals against the Stars and giving her not only her first goal of the season but the NWSL’s first hat trick of the year. While Chawinga is an important factor for the Current, success for the Dash will come from containing players like Croix Bethune and Michelle Cooper, who have made key contributions. If Kansas City can attack Houston’s back line with all their talent, goals will almost certainly follow. The Dash’s key to the game: Jane Campbell. She’s in excellent form this year, leading the league in saves.

After two closely fought defensive battles last weekend, both the Seattle Reign FC and Gotham FC will be looking to let their goalscorers loose. Much of Seattle’s attack last match revolved around midfielder Maddie Mercado, who’s currently tied with Brittany Ratcliffe for most goals scored for Seattle this season. Combining Mercado and Ratcliffe will yield the best results. Throw in club assist leader Nerilia “Coco” Mondesir for good measure and anything’s possible for the home team. On the visitor’s side, Gotham needs to get Jaedyn Shaw involved early and often. She’s scored in the last two matches, and both of those came in the first half. She’s the engine to Gotham’s attack. Gotham’s defense has kept the most clean sheets this year, so utilizing the attack well is a winning combination.

This match will be a battle of defense. On the weekend, both teams had disciplined efforts against high-powered offenses. Bay FC kept a clean sheet against the Utah Royals and Boston Summit FC kept their match against Gotham tied for the entire second half. Bay goalkeeper Jordan Silkowitz is now the club record holder for most minutes without conceding. This speaks to how important she is to the defense and how crucial she’ll be against such an unpredictable team as Boston. For the Legacy, it’s important to use that unpredictability. Attackers Aïssata Traoré and Alba Caño are tied for the most goals scored for the club, but right behind them is defender Bianca St-Georges. And after Tuesday’s match, where Aleigh Gambone and Amanda Gutierres got their first goals of their NWSL careers, it’s clear they have the talent needed to win. If Boston can sow enough chaos, they could come away with a West Coast victory.

After winning over their rivals Angel City FC in the California Clash last week, San Diego will be looking to continue their positive momentum. Meanwhile the Washington Spirit come into this match on a league best five-game winning streak, with Paraguayan sensation Claudia Martínez scoring the game winner in two consecutive matches. The Wave need to use their array of attacking talents to overwhelm the Spirit defense. It’s not possible to double team every single player, and the Wave should use this to their advantage. Dudinha’s the league leader in assists, and even if she’s guarded and can’t score, she can still pass the ball and make magic happen. For the Spirit, it’s crucial they stay defensively disciplined. Players like Dudinha and Kenza Dali are incredibly tricky. They can truly make something out of nothing, and Washington cannot get caught on the back foot. Ironwomen Tara Rudd and Esme Morgan need to lock it down to ensure the Spirit take home three more points and extend their win streak to six.

On paper, the North Carolina Courage are in a better spot heading into this match than the Chicago Stars. They have one more win under their belt and have scored more goals. Plus, they’ve got a Golden Boot contender in Ashley Sanchez. Despite this, Chicago isn't totally down and out. They’ve got the capability of causing an upset, such as their 2-1 victory against the Kansas City Current earlier this season. The key for the Chicago Stars will be staying compact defensively. Last week in their 3-0 defeat to Kansas City, Chicago had massive holes in their defense, allowing Temwa Chawinga to get a hat trick. On the other side, the Courage need to exploit the defensive lapses of the Stars, giving players like Sanchez and Manaka Matsukubo plenty of time and space to score.

These two teams are already gearing up for a rematch of their 1-1 tie in March. The Denver Summit will be playing just their third game at home, and they’re still searching for a home win. Both sides have had more time to develop and explore what works for them. For the home team, the Summit have had great success with their forward line. It’s important for Denver to get Tash Flint involved at every opportunity to continue her goal-scoring streak – she’s scored in each of Denver’s last three matches and is making quick strides in the Golden Boot race. Alongside Flint as the club’s top-three scorers are Melissa Kössler and Janine Sonis, and together, they’re one of the league’s most dangerous attacking trios, as evident in last weekend’s rout against Houston. It seems like a no-brainer, therefore, for Orlando to maintain possession and pass the ball to Barbra Banda as much as possible. Banda’s currently leading the Golden Boot race, scoring eight goals in nine matches. For both teams, relying on their attacking talent will hopefully provide some fireworks in the Mile High City.

Both teams are desperate to get those three points after tough losses last week. Top of the table Portland Thorns were upset by Racing Louisville FC, and Angel City FC lost a close match to rivals San Diego Wave FC. This matchup’s first 2026 chapter was less than a month ago, where Portland bested Angel City, 2-1. Sophia Wilson scored her first goal since 2024 and has since brought her total for the season to three goals. All three of her goals have come from open play on the dribble. Portland’s objective should be to get Wilson on the ball as much as possible for that very reason. Meanwhile, the key for Angel City is set pieces. They’re tied with Utah for most goals scored off of set pieces (6), so it’s essential for them to capitalize on their corners and free kicks. Then, they can leverage every player on the field as a potential goalscorer. Just look at defender Emily Sams’ goal from the last match as proof. This is a game with a lot on the line, expect a fierce fight from both teams.

After a goalless draw to Bay FC over the weekend, the Utah Royals extended their unbeaten streak to seven matches. Meanwhile Racing Louisville FC is coming off a statement 3-1 win against top of the table Portland Thorns FC. The Royals are known for their exciting offense – Cloé Lacasse has scored three goals in her last four games and Mina Tanaka is in the top five league assist leaders. However, the key for Utah will be in their defense, which they expertly deployed last weekend in San Jose. Mandy McGlynn’s presence is giving Utah’s back line a quiet confidence and Kate Del Fava, who has played every available minute for Utah since their return in 2024, is reliable and brave in her challenges. In Utah’s last three games, they’ve kept three clean sheets, which means Racing will have a tall order if they hope to get on the scoresheet. Ironically, the key for Louisville is the same for Utah. Their offense is explosive, but the real test will be for Jordyn Bloomer in goal. She’s currently third in total saves across the league, and every match it seems she’s able to pull a rabbit from her hat to keep Racing in it. Look for strong goalkeeping on both sides to rival the talent up front.
