The more things change, the more they stay the same. The NWSL broke attendance records during kickoff weekend, and those crowds were in for solid matchups. Only four teams leave Week 1 with clean sheets.

While there are lots of beloved players in new places, many got right into the rhythm of their new club. There were goals in debuts, on birthdays, and in returns from leave. There were point-blank saves, clean tackles, and not a scoreless draw in the bunch.

Yeah, we are so back. Let’s get into everything that happened in the opening weekend of the 2026 NWSL season.

The last time the Thorns played in D.C., they were sent packing from the semifinals, narrowly missing their shot at the NWSL Championship, but this time, Olivia Moultrie broke through early in the second half to give Portland the win against the Washington Spirit.

Second-year forward Pietra Tordin set Moultrie up from the left side of the box, and Moultrie’s first touch put the ball in perfect position for her to drive it home past Spirit keeper Sandy MacIver, who stepped up to the starting role as Aubrey Kingsbury is on maternity leave. It’s a brand new season, but a little 2025 revenge for good measure never hurts.

Sophia Wilson made her return to the pitch just six months after giving birth to her daughter, Gigi, making for a quick “Double Espresso” reunion between her and Trinity Rodman. It also marked the first win for Portland Thorns Head Coach Robert Vilahamn, who joined the team just days before the game.

Despite new expansion team Boston Legacy holding the reigning champions scoreless for the first half of their inaugural match, Gotham broke through in the 56th minute thanks to an Esther González goal.

Though not the win Boston was hoping for to start out, Legacy fans broke the expansion team inaugural home opener attendance record AND the east coast attendance record. With 30,207 people (and New Kids on the Block!!) at Gillette Stadium Saturday, Boston’s newest franchise made their presence known – and perhaps, an NWSL rivalry in the making.

Kansas City snatched the home opening win over the Utah Royals, and the day belonged to Croix Bethune. One of the newest members of the Kansas City Current, Bethune scored her first goal in her club debut – at home and on her 25th birthday.

Ally Sentnor scored the game-winner for Kansas City, and her first career goal for the Current came against her former club. The Royals opened up scoring in the first half when Tatumn Milazzo broke through in the 35th minute. It was the very first time the Royals have ever scored against the Current. There are no moral wins for the visitors, but there are mental ones.

It was an electric first half as Bay FC kicked off the season with a 2-1 win over the Denver Summit in their home opener. Alex Pfeiffer, who signed with Bay FC from the Current over the offseason, scored the first goal of the game and her first with her new club.

Despite the loss, it was a historic day for the Summit, and Melissa Kössler scored the first goal in club history to equalize. Janine Sonis threaded a pass on the run to Kössler, who knocked it home with a single touch. Bay Area native Joelle Anderson scored the game-winning goal in the 31st minute, assisted by first half goal scorer Pfeiffer, to seal the deal for Bay. Claire Hutton also made her Bay debut after being traded from the Current in the offseason and proved highly efficient in controlling the midfield.

Ashley Sanchez carried the Courage to a season opening win at home with her first career brace, scoring a goal in each half.

Racing’s Sarah Weber scored to level the game in first half stoppage time. Emma Sears earned the assist on Weber’s goal. After Racing’s Jordyn Bloomer put up a triple save in the 64th minute to keep the game tied, Sanchez broke through again in the final minutes of the match to secure three points for the Courage. Sanchez now leads the league in goals scored heading into week 2.

It was the best case scenario for Houston’s Kiki Van Zanten, who faced off against her sister Mimi in her NWSL debut for the San Diego Wave. Mimi made her debut, played well, but the Dash went home with the win.

Both goalies earned their keep in this matchup. Didi Haračić made a point-blank save to keep San Diego in the match, and Jane Campbell robbed Ludmila of an equalizing goal when she leapt into the air, barely getting a glove on the ball to send it over the crossbar in the 65th minute.

The Thorns weren’t the only West Coast team exacting some 2025 revenge in the season opener. After losing to the Pride in the NWSL quarterfinals, the Seattle Reign left Orlando with the win this time.

It was a little “something old, something new” for the Reign. NWSL OG Jess Fishlock scored the opening goal of the game, while Brittany Ratcliffe scored the game winner in her Seattle debut. Fishlock is now tied for 9th with Christen Press in all-time regular season goals, her 49th.

Among the high points for Orlando was the return of a Barbra Banda. After going on SEI at the end of last season, Banda picked up right where she left off for the Pride, scoring in her first game back.

Angel City made a statement in their home opener, shutting out the Chicago Stars and lighting up the scoreboard with four goals from four different scorers. Both Kennedy Fuller and Ary Borges, who made her club debut for Angel City, earned a goal and assist. Evelyn Shores scored her second professional goal, and Maiara Niehues capped off the day with some help from Sveindís Jónsdóttir.

The big win was punctuated by the emotional return of Savy King, who played in her first match since she collapsed on the field last season. She was given a warm welcome by the home crowd, her team, and even away players, and proved she wasn’t going to miss a beat, showing off with a clean tackle against Jordyn Huitema, who was making her debut for the Stars.

Angel City head into week 2 at the top of the table for the first time in club history.
