With the2024 NWSL Draft presented by Ally just around the corner on January 12, a talented group of players has already registered for selection as they prepare to begin their professional careers. Players may register here until 11:59 p.m. ET on Monday, January 8.

With the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, just around the corner on January 12, a talented group of players has already registered for selection as they prepare to begin their professional careers. Players may register here until 11:59 p.m. ET on Monday, January 8.The 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, will take place on Friday, January 12, at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET during the United Soccer Coaches Convention at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California. The event is free and open to the public. Live coverage will be televised on ION from 8 to 10 p.m. ET. All rounds of the draft will be streamed on ION Plus. Viewers can find access to ION in their area or via streaming platform by visiting https://iontelevision.com/find-us. Fans tuning in to the NWSL Draft outside the U.S. can watch the entirety of the event on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com. See below for more on some of the top prospects heading into this year’s draft. A live tracker with the most up-to-date list of registered players is available here.

Hannah Anderson – Defender, Texas Tech

Hannah Anderson started all 23 matches in her fifth collegiate season, recording career highs in minutes (2,041), goals (5, including three game winners), assists (2) and points (12), and helping Texas Tech to its best season in program history. The Plano, Texas native earned multiple accolades, including Big 12 Defensive Player of the Year, First Team All-Big 12, and United Soccer Coaches Association First Team All-America honors while being recognized as a MAC Hermann Award Semifinalist. Behind Anderson’s strong play, Texas Tech finished 16-2-5, including an 8-0-2 record in Big 12 play, the best record in the conference, and reached the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament.

Maycee Bell – Defender, North Carolina

Redshirt senior Maycee Bell turned heads in her fifth season at North Carolina, tallying two goals and two assists across 20 starts as a team captain. Bell earned All-ACC Second Team honors while guiding the Tar Heels to a 13-2-8 record, third best in the conference. The Tar Heels defense held opponents to 10 shots or fewer in 20 of 23 matches, allowing a conference-best eight goals in 10 ACC matchups. Bell scored her second goal of the season in the NCAA quarterfinal against BYU after preventing Alabama and Texas Tech from recording a single shot on goal in consecutive tournament games.

Croix Bethune – Midfielder, Georgia

After three seasons at USC, Bethune spent her final collegiate season at University of Georgia, posting four goals and five assists across 15 matches as the Bulldogs reached the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament. Bethune impressed in her lone season in the SEC, earning Second Team All-SEC, SEC All-Tournament Team and SEC Tournament MVP honors along with an All-America Second Team selection. In her time at USC, Bethune earned two All-America First Team selections and two PAC-12 Midfielder of the Year awards while finishing as a MAC Hermann Trophy Semifinalist in 2021.

Cori Dyke – Defender, Penn State

Cori Dyke led Penn State to a 15-2-4 record in 2023, the best in the Big 10, while advancing all the way to the quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament. Dyke finished the season with five goals and six assists across 23 matches, earning Big 10 Defender of the Year, First Team All-Big 10 and Second Team All-America honors. Her best game came in the first round of the NCAA Tournament when she tallied a goal and two assists while guiding the Nittany Lions to a 7-0 win against Central Connecticut State. Dyke was also a strong set piece option for Penn State, converting three penalty kicks this season.

Makenna Morris – Defender, Clemson

Makenna Morris, whose sister Maliah played for the Orlando Pride in 2023, was electric in 26 starts for Clemson in her senior season, posting career highs in minutes (2,158), goals (10, including five game winners), points (26) and shots on goal (28) to go along with six assists. Morris’ stellar season earned her First Team All-ACC and All-America Second Team honors while guiding the Tigers to the NCAA semifinals. She scored her tenth goal of the season in the quarterfinal against Penn State to help Clemson reach the College Cup for the first time in program history.
