Get ready for two exciting midweek showdowns this Wednesday evening. With playoff implications hanging in the balance, the stakes are high and every point counts! Here’s what fans have to look forward to!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. San Diego Wave - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

NWSL fans have a little midweek NWSL action in store for them this Wednesday evening as Gotham FC (7-2-3) hosts San Diego Wave (3-4-5). Last time these two squads faced off, on May 12th, they both settled for a draw but since then Gotham FC forward Ella Stevens has been in goal scoring form, finding the back of the net five times in her last five matches. Meanwhile, on Saturday, Jaedyn Shaw netted her 13th career goal, breaking the record for the most goals scored in all competitions by a teenager in league history. Will Stevens or Shaw be the difference maker this time around, ensuring one team leaves with all three points?

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. Racing Louisville FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN

Both Angel City FC (3-6-3) and Racing Louisville FC (3-3-6) had disappointing results last weekend, with Racing losing their home match and Angel City settling for a draw after plenty of opportunities to get on the board. This weekday matchup is an opportunity to find much needed points before heading into their second matches of the week, which would secure Racing’s spot in the standings and push Angel City into a spot to potentially grab a spot by the end of the week. Keep an eye on Angel City forward Claire Emslie, who will be eager to redeem herself by getting on the scoresheet this Wednesday after her penalty kick was saved last match.
