As Week 20 of the NWSL season approaches, the race for playoff positions and the NWSL Shield is heating up. While no teams face elimination this weekend, several sides can secure their spots with the right results. Here’s a look at the clinching scenarios:

The team at the top of the table remains unbeaten this season. They were the first team to clinch a playoff spot this season, and can clinch a top-4 seed and a guaranteed quarterfinal home game with one of the following:

Orlando win OR

Orlando draw AND North Carolina draw OR

North Carolina loss

Bay FC vs. Orlando Pride - Friday, September 20th at 10:30 pm ET

The defending champions are making a dominant run this season as they seek to add more hardware to their trophy case. They can ensure their run continues and clinch a playoff spot if one of the following results happen:

Gotham FC win OR draw OR

Louisville draw OR loss OR

Portland loss

Gotham FC vs. Utah Royals - Sunday, September 22nd at 1:00 pm ET

After ending 2023 in 11th place, Kansas City spent the offseason recruiting some of the best young and international talent in the game. With a new state-of-the-art home stadium and fired up by current Golden Boot leader Temwa Chawinga, they’ve been near unstoppable this season. They can clinch a playoff spot with one of the following:

Kansas City win OR

Kansas City draw AND Louisville draw OR loss OR

Kansas City draw AND Portland loss OR

Louisville draw/loss AND Angel City draw OR loss

Kansas City Current vs. Washington Spirit - Friday, September 20th at 8:00 pm ET

The Spirit have already clinched a spot in the playoffs and are currently in second place in the standings. A win this weekend will go a long way in ensuring they stay in the battle for the NWSL Shield.

Kansas City Current vs. Washington Spirit - Friday, September 20th at 8:00 pm ET

The battle for the NWSL Shield is narrowing with only five teams still in the race: Orlando Pride, Washington Spirit, Gotham FC, Kansas City Current, and North Carolina Courage.
