NEW YORK (November 22, 2024) \- The National Women's Soccer League today announced a multi-year partnership with Bobbie, the mom-founded pediatric nutrition company. Bobbie becomes the exclusive infant formula partner of the NWSL as the league continues to bolster its commitment to mothers both on and off the field. As part of this partnership, Bobbie will provide dedicated on-site feeding and lactation areas for mothers attending the 2024 NWSL Championship on November 23<sup>rd</sup> in Kansas City.

“The NWSL is leading the way in providing the tools for working mothers to thrive in their roles as athletes and parents," said NWSL Chief Marketing & Commercial Officer Julie Haddon. “Our partnership with Bobbie speaks volumes about our commitment to parents, and we look forward to working closely with Bobbie to continue to set new standards for women in sports.”

Bobbie will also provide additional on-site activations at NWSL games throughout the 2025 and 2026 seasons. Bobbie will also present an annual Parent’s Day Award each season to one parent from each NWSL club.

“The NWSL has redefined women’s sports in the U.S. as they inspire millions of young girls to dream bigger, and Bobbie shares that spirit as the only mom-founded and led formula company in the country” said Bobbie CEO and Co-Founder Laura Modi. “We’re thrilled to be an official sponsor of the League, supporting its mission and redefining what it means to be the modern ‘soccer mom’ as we work together to nourish the babies of the athletes on the field, the coaches on the sidelines and the fans in the stands.”

About National Women's Soccer League

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Bobbie

Bobbie is a purpose-driven organic pediatric nutrition company that exists to build a parenting culture of confidence, not comparison. Founded in 2018, Bobbie hit the market with its original European-inspired formula in 2021 as the first direct-to-consumer, subscription-based infant formula in the U.S. Today, it’s proud to be the only mom-founded and led infant formula brand in the U.S. and the fastest-growing in the U.S. since the 1980s. Bobbie is focused on providing purposefully sourced, USDA Organic products made with simple ingredients—crafted right here in America, for American families. For more information, visit www.hibobbie.com.
