It was another Decision Day for the books. Racing Louisville clinched their very first playoff berth and both Portland and Orlando secured hosting rights for next weekend’s quarterfinals alongside KC Current and Washington Spirit, who already clinched quarterfinal home games.

If you couldn’t keep up with all the action, here’s what you missed.

Kansas City Current vs. San Diego Wave (2-1 KC)

It looked like the Wave might hand the Current their second-straight loss, but then the No. 1 team showed why they earned that spot. Dudinha opened up scoring just eight minutes into the game with a nutmeg goal on her fellow Brazilian Lorena.

San Diego were able to hold off Kansas City in the first half, but the second half saw the Current come alive. Debinha got on the board with a curling free kick just outside the box for her eighth of the year. It sailed into the upper left corner, and Kailen Sheridan had no shot of making a save. Nichelle Prince scored the game-winner 21 minutes later, almost exactly a year to the date she scored her last NWSL goal.

The loss for San Diego means a trip to Providence Park next weekend to take on the Portland Thorns.

Portland Thorns vs. Houston Dash (2-0 POR)

The Thorns wasted no time at all getting on the board. Deyna Castellanos scored just three minutes into the game, earning her second goal of the year and her first since April. Jessie Fleming added insurance later in the first half, and the Thorns were able to hold the Dash scoreless to secure the victory and third place, which means a home quarterfinal game against the San Diego Wave next weekend.

Racing Louisville vs. Bay FC (1-0 LOU)

Racing Louisville punched their ticket to the playoffs for the first time ever, capping off the best season in club history. Rookie Ella Hase couldn’t have scored her first NWSL career goal at a better time. Racing needed a win to secure their fate due to the scoreline in the Courage versus Gotham game happening simultaneously, and after relentless pressure on Jordan Silkowitz and the Bay defense, Hase broke through in the second half.

The win secured seventh place for Racing, earning them a trip to Washington D.C. to face the Spirit. Head Coach Bev Yanez made history in her own right, as well, becoming the first person to make the playoffs as both a player and a head coach. She is also the first American woman to coach a team to the NWSL playoffs since Cindy Parlow Cone in the 2013 inaugural season.

Utah Royals vs. Washington Spirit (1-0 UTA)

WIth their seeding in place and facing several injuries, the Spirit could afford a loss to the Royals. Utah captain Paige Monaghan helped her team end on a high note with her fifth goal of the year. After a rocky start, the Royals started to click in the second half of the season, losing just three games since the summer break. It’s a promising sign for a club who will look to start 2026 off stronger than 2025.

The Spirit, on the other hand, will march on to the quarterfinals, where they will host Racing Louisville. Get ready for another Rowdy Audi playoff game that is sure to be electric.

North Carolina Courage vs. Gotham FC (3-2 NCC)

North Carolina did everything they could to earn a playoff spot, but unfortunately, a Louisville win meant the end of the road, despite putting on a show in the pouring rain. The Courage came out blazing like a team that knew it needed to make a statement to keep their dreams alive. Meredith Speck opened up scoring 14 minutes in, and just two minutes later Manaka Matsukubo launched a long-range missile over the head of an out-of-position Ann-Katrin Berger. An own goal early in the second half firmed up a 3-0 lead over Gotham.

Gotham was fighting for a home game next weekend and instead punched their ticket to face the No. 1 Kansas City Current at CPKC Stadium. Despite mounting a comeback thanks to Rose Lavelle’s first in-game PK conversion in the 88th minute and a Gabi Portilho stoppage-time goal, it wasn’t enough to eke out a draw. The loss dropped Gotham down to eighth place, a hard break for a team that had found its rhythm late in the season.

Chicago Stars vs. Angel City FC (2-1 CHI)

The Stars closed out their season with a 2-1 win at home against Angel City. The LA team got on the board first with a goal from Miyabi Moriya, her first in the league. The Stars pulled level early in the second half through Jameese Joseph and in the closing minutes, Ally Schlegel delivered the decisive strike to lift the Stars to victory. The match also marked a poignant moment for Christen Press, who played the final game of her illustrious career, coincidentally for the first team in the NWSL she played for. It was also the last NWSL appearance for Angel City captain Ali Riley. With both teams already out of the playoffs, pride was on the line and despite the results, the match had no impact on final standings.

Orlando Pride vs. Seattle Reign (1-1 ORL)

Both teams were fighting for the right to play at home and only one could win. Despite the result being a draw, the Pride come out on top, earning fourth place in the standings. Carson Pickett scored in the 76’ after controlling a cross from Jacquie Ovalle and sending it past goalkeeper Claudia Dickey. But three minutes later, Jordyn Bugg equalized. With the tie, the Pride secure a home game next weekend, but don’t call it deja vu. Their opponent will be none other than the team they faced tonight.
