NWSL Playoffs Preview: No. 2 Washington Spirit vs. No. 7 Racing Louisville FC | November 8 at 12PM ET on CBS

Saturday, November 8 | 12 PM ET | CBS

Here’s the thing about the NWSL – anything can happen. When Racing Louisville punched their very first ticket to the postseason, it was all but certain that they would land in eighth place and take a trip to Kansas City for the quarterfinals.

But on Decision Day, Gotham FC lost to North Carolina, ending the season with 36 points. With their win and final point tally (37) Louisville finished in seventh, and while avoiding CPKC Stadium is a gift in its own right, playing at Audi Field isn’t much of a reprieve.

The second place Washington Spirit are no strangers to the NWSL playoffs, but after a heartbreaking loss in 2024, will they be able to find redemption?

The Washington Spirit made it all the way to the big dance last year, but couldn’t complete the mission. Few things are a better motivator than a revenge tour, and if nothing else, a playoff game at “Rowdy” Audi Field rarely disappoints. Take last year’s semifinal shootout against Gotham, for example.

The Spirit lost 1-0 to the Royals on Decision Day, but that shouldn’t be a worrisome sign for fans. The team travelled with just 16 players, while big names like Trinity Rodman, Croix Bethune, and Rosemonde Kouassi were unavailable. The biggest question mark is, of course, around Rodman and whether she will see game time in the quarterfinals or beyond, should the Spirit advance.

The Washington offense has proven itself capable of scoring when Rodman is out, having done so at the start of the season. Gift Monday rocketted into the conversation with the fastest hat trick in NWSL history, and Italian Sofia Cantore’s fancy footwork has dazzled NWSL fans since her debut.

In net, Aubrey Kingsbury has held it down, shutting out opponents eight times, and she has a history of showing up strong in the playoffs. Kingsbury was the 2021 NWSL Championship MVP, after all and last year, in the semifinal penalty shootout, she played hero by saving three shots to send the Spirit to the Championship.

At the end of the day, this isn’t the Spirit’s first playoff rodeo. Home field advantage lies in the faithful Washington fans and if they can rattle the postseason newcomers.

For Racing, reaching the quarterfinals is a victory in its own right, but don’t expect the postseason newcomers to be satisfied with one-and-done.

It was the best year in Racing’s history, with the team setting club records for wins (10), points (37), and road victories (5). And the emotional heartbeat of the team has been Head Coach Bev Yanez. In her second year, Yanez led the team through it all and, of course, to their first playoff appearance.

The linchpin in the Louisville offense has been Emma Sears. She became the first Racing player to score 10 goals in a season, and during the international break before Decision Day, she went on a tear, scoring her first-ever hat trick for the U.S. Women’s National Team. If Louisville can get Sears involved in the action, the offense will be a force to reckon with.

A defense of veterans, including Taylor Flint, Janine Sonis, Arin Wright, Lauren Milliet, and Ellie Jean, have helped set the tone, along with back-up-keeper-turned-started Jordyn Bloomer. Sonis has also been crucial to Racing’s set pieces, taking 56 corner kicks. She also leads the team with assists, so look to Sonis to feed balls through to the offense.

With five clean sheets, the Racing defense is capable of shutting down offensive pressure, but as the season wore down, Racing saw a dangerous trend of conceding late-in-the-game goals.

The last time these two teams faced off, Louisville nearly pulled off the upset at Audi Field, but conceded the equalizer in 90+10’. They’ve proven they have what it takes to go up against the best in the league. But to walk out of D.C. with a W, Racing’s defense will need to hold strong until the final whistle.

Check out the 2025 NWSL Playoffs Hub.

TUNE IN: SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 8 AT 12PM ET ON CBS
