Each Nominee will wear a commemorative armband during Appreciation Match; Download image of commemorative armbands here

Learn more about this year’s 2025 Lauren Holiday Impact Award Nominees here

Fans can participate and give back through the 2025 Fan Impact Challenge August 15-30

NEW YORK (July 29, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) announced today the schedule of Appreciation Matches and related activities that celebrate the 14 club nominees for the 2025 Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide.

The philanthropic work of the nominees and the respective partnerships with their chosen charities will be highlighted during the matches below. New for this year’s Appreciation Matches, each nominee will wear a commemorative armband bearing the silhouette of award namesake, Lauren Holiday.

Each of the designated community partners will receive a $5,000 donation, courtesy of Nationwide.

During Championship week in November, one of this year’s nominees will be announced as the 2025 Lauren Holiday Impact Award winner. At that time, Nationwide will make a $50,000 donation to the charitable organization of the winner’s choice.

Fan Impact Challenge & Sweepstakes

Fans are invited to show support for their favorite nominee through the Fan Impact Challenge. The competition will be hosted on nwslsoccer.com from August 15-30. The nominee with the most fan engagement will be announced as winner of the Fan Impact Challenge and the charitable organization of that player’s choice will receive an additional $10,000 donation from Nationwide.

A new enhancement to the Fan Impact Challenge is a sweepstakes where one randomly selected fan, among those who voted for the winning nominee, will receive a jersey from the team of their choosing.

For more information about the Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, visit nwslsoccer.com-impact.

About NWSL The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Nationwide

Nationwide, a Fortune 100 company based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest and strongest diversified financial services and insurance organizations in the United States. Nationwide is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s. An industry leader in driving customer-focused innovation, Nationwide provides a full range of insurance and financial services products including auto, business, homeowners, farm and life insurance; public and private sector retirement plans, annuities and mutual funds; excess & surplus, specialty and surety; and pet, motorcycle and boat insurance.

For more information, visit www.nationwide.com. Subscribe today to receive the latest news from Nationwide and follow Nationwide PR on X.

Nationwide, Nationwide is on your side and the Nationwide N and Eagle are service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. © 2025
