NEW YORK (November 5, 2023) –

After a pair of sellout matches that saw both road teams emerge victorious, the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, have been determined. In its third Championship appearance, No. 4 OL Reign will square off against first-time finalist No. 6 Gotham FC in primetime at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11 at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California.

NEW YORK (November 5, 2023) – After a pair of sellout matches that saw both road teams emerge victorious, the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, have been determined. In its third Championship appearance, No. 4 OL Reign will square off against first-time finalist No. 6 Gotham FC in primetime at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11 at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California.

The match will air live on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+ while fans tuning in internationally can stream the match on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com. Additional coverage details will be shared this week. An exciting first semifinal match saw Gotham FC defeat No. 2 Portland Thorns FC to advance to the NWSL Championship for the first time in club history. Gotham FC forward Katie Stengel scored for the visitors in the 107th minute following a scoreless regulation and first period of extra time off an assist from midfielder Kristie Mewis, marking the first playoff goal and assist of their careers. Goalkeeper Mandy Haught recorded three saves in her second consecutive shutout. Closing out the semifinal round, OL Reign defeated NWSL Shield winner and No. 1 seed San Diego Wave FC after forward Veronica Latsko scored for the second game in a row in the 47th minute. Midfielder Rose Lavelle recorded her first career playoff assist on the goal. OL Reign advances to its first Championship appearance since 2015, and its third in club history. With four saves, Claudia Dickey became just the third keeper to earn shutouts in her first two playoff appearances. Tonight’s match at Snapdragon Stadium set an NWSL playoff attendance record with 32,262 fans on hand for San Diego vs. OL Reign, while 25,218 fans packed Providence Park for Thorns vs. Gotham FC, marking the third highest attendance at a playoff match in league history. OL Reign and Gotham FC matched up twice in the regular season with each club winning a game. Coach of the Year finalist Juan Carlos Amorós will face Laura Harvey, who has won the award three times, as both look to lead their club to their first NWSL Championship title. Reign forward Megan Rapinoe and Gotham FC defender Ali Krieger will both play their final NWSL match on Saturday, as the former USWNT teammates battle to finish their careers with a Championship crown. Tickets for the match are available here.
