Just two weeks into the new year, a fresh collection of talented players will join the National Women’s Soccer League through the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, as both clubs and fans alike share their excitement for the incoming talent.Take a deeper dive into how it works, where clubs stack up in the draft order and where to watch below:

When is the Draft?

The 2024 NWSL Draft presented by Ally is set for Friday, January 12 at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET, and will be held during the United Soccer Coaches Convention at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California.

How can I watch the Draft?

Live coverage of the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, will begin on ION Television at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET and continue until 8 p.m. PT / 10 p.m. ET, at which time the remainder of the draft will be available on ION Plus.

Viewers can find access to ION in their area or via streaming platform by visiting https://iontelevision.com/find-us.

Fans tuning in to the NWSL Draft outside the U.S. can watch the entirety of the event on NWSLSoccer.com.

Can I attend the Draft?

The Draft is free and open to the public. There will be general admission seating on a first-come, first-served basis for the general public.

How does the Draft work?

This year, there will be 56 total selections at the NWSL Draft from Utah Royals FC’s No. 1 pick to selection No. 56, which is currently held by the Orlando Pride. Players eligible to be selected are those who have registered for the Draft and have been vetted as meeting the eligibility requirements by the League, which include:

Being a citizen or permanent resident of the United States or a foreign national who is currently or was enrolled at a university in the United States during the 2023-24 academic year; or

Being an individual who has exhausted, lost, or renounced their remaining collegiate eligibility during the 2023 calendar year, including high school graduates choosing to forego; and

Being at least 18 years old on or before December 31, 2023; and

Not being under a current professional contract, nor have previously signed a contract to play soccer professionally

Players must register for the 2024 NWSL Draft by 11:59 pm ET on Monday, January 8, 2024 The Draft will see 14 selections in all four rounds. In Round 1, each team will have five minutes to announce its pick while Rounds 2-4 will allot teams three minutes to make their selections. Teams are also eligible to request up to three time-outs during the Draft for further discussion, rule clarification, or trade discussion, and all time-outs taken regardless of round will be three minutes in length. The most recent draft order can be seen here.

Who has registered for the Draft?

The live registration tracker with the most up-to-date list of registrants is available here.
