The second half of the NWSL season can’t come soon enough for fans. After a thrilling start to the action with stunning performances from rookies and veterans alike, unbeaten streaks, and a competitive Golden Boot race, things are only going to heat up more.

Though an MVP performance is season long, it’s never too early to start debating where the honor might fall this year. Will the Current’s Temwa Chawinga have another Temwa Sweep? Will it be a new face in the league who stands out the most?

Former English player and current ESPN analyst Lianne Sanderson has been watching the action closely and weighed in with her MVP rankings so far this season.

5\. DELPHINE CASCARINO

Delphine Cascarino came to San Diego halfway through the 2024 season, but she started her first full NWSL season fired up and ready to go.

Cascarino has scored three goals so far and leads the league in assists with five. She spent the summer break representing France and showed up in the same way for her country. In three games, Cascarino scored two goals and earned two assists.

Sanderson said she is a force no matter who she is up against.

“Cascarino always looks dangerous. She’s the best in the league for me at going one-on-one and has an incredible final ball,” Sanderson said. “She provides a service for the attack and can also score bangers.”

4\. DEBINHA

Despite sustaining an injury that knocked her out of play until after the summer break, Debinha’s impact cannot be ignored. With five goals and an assist on a scorching hot Kansas City offense, Debinha is a smart player who creates opportunities with style.

For Sanderson, Debinha is must-watch football.

“She has been incredible this season – scoring goals, assisting, her touches and manipulation of the ball,” Sanderson said. “Her football IQ is what separates her from most. She’s my favorite player to watch in the league.

3\. BARBRA BANDA

With 17 goals last year, Barbra Banda finished second in the Golden Boot race. This year, Banda already has eight goals and an assist and sits third in the Golden Boot race.

She made history earlier this season with the first hat trick in Orlando’s club history.

Oh, and one more thing – it was the fastest hat trick in NWSL history, scoring three goals in the first 38 minutes of a game.

“Banda hasn’t skipped a beat from last season,” Sanderson said. “Yes, mathematically she’s scoring less goals, but still effective. She’s a threat and always has an answer, even when teams feel they have worked her out. They haven’t. She’s a constant threat.”

2\. TEMWA CHAWINGA

The reigning MVP could make it two years in a row. Temwa Chawinga has been a difference maker on an offensively stacked roster, relentlessly pressuring opponents and having fun while doing it.

With eight goals and two assists, Chawinga edges out Banda for second place in the Golden Boot race.

“Chawinga is doing what she does best – scoring goals,” Sanderson said. “She is just a constant threat on attack and also incredible on defense. You can never switch off with Temwa.

1\. ESTHER GONZÁLEZ

Of course, it isn’t an MVP discussion without the current leader of the Golden Boot race – Esther González.

Even in the midst of the summer break, González didn’t exactly rest on her laurels. Instead, she went on a scoring tear in the UEFA Women’s Euro 2025 for her native Spain, who are set to take on England in the final.

"She’s always a threat and \[she’s\] scoring goals for fun this year,” Sanderson said. “Even when the team hasn’t played well, she has.”

If her play during the summer break is any indication, González won’t slow down any time soon, but one of the best things about the NWSL is that any team can win at any time and any player can burst onto the scene, even as the season winds down.

You can catch Sanderson’s expert analysis for NWSL games on ESPN.
