NEW YORK (August 3, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today that NJ/NY Gotham FC midfielder/defender Jenna Nighswonger has been named Rookie of the Month, presented by Ally, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. The selection marks Nighswonger’s second Rookie of the Month distinction this season.

NEW YORK (August 3, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today that NJ/NY Gotham FC midfielder/defender Jenna Nighswonger has been named Rookie of the Month, presented by Ally, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. The selection marks Nighswonger’s second Rookie of the Month distinction this season.

The fourth overall pick in the 2023 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, out of Florida State, Nighswonger’s strong rookie campaign continued into July with a pair of goals and an assist in 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup play. The Huntington Beach, California native’s play helped lead Gotham FC to a 2-1-1 record in July, including 1-0-1 in regular season play and 1-1-0 in Challenge Cup matches. The 22-year-old opened her stellar month of play with seven tackles and three blocks in a scoreless draw against Angel City on July 2, anchoring a strong defensive effort from Gotham FC while also completing a team-high 38 passes. Nighswonger was active as a playmaker again the following week, completing 29 passes in a 2-1 win over Portland Thorns FC. The rookie was a key contributor in Gotham FC’s 3-1 Challenge Cup win over the Orlando Pride, recording a goal and an assist for the first multi-point performance of her NWSL career. Coming on a penalty kick in the 35th minute, the goal marked the rookie’s first in Challenge Cup play. Nighswonger capped off her night with an assist to give the club the lead in the 55th minute. She also led the team with 35 completed passes in the win. Nighswonger notched her second Challenge Cup goal of the season in the club’s following match against the Washington Spirit, connecting on a header off a long pass across the box from teammate Midge Purce. So far this season, Nighswonger has two regular season goals to go along with a pair of goals and two assists in Challenge Cup play. For her performance, she was also named to the NWSL’s July Best XI of the Month. The NWSL Rookie of the Month presented by Ally is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.
