After a grueling three matches in a little over one week, the Washington Spirit ended Matchweek 13 in first place after the top spot changed twice. Headed into Matchweek 14 and with summer break in the rear view mirror, every point matters. Let’s take a look at this week’s matches.

Orlando Pride vs. Chicago Stars - Friday, July 24 | 8:00 PM ET (Victory+)

Houston Dash vs. Bay FC - Friday, July 24 | 8:00 PM ET (Victory+)

Portland Thorns vs. Gotham FC - Friday, July 24 | 10:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Boston Legacy vs. Kansas City Current - Saturday, July 25 | 5:00 PM ET (ION)

North Carolina Courage vs. Utah Royals - Saturday, July 25 | 7:45 PM ET (ION)

San Diego Wave vs. Seattle Reign - Sunday, July 26 | 5:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Washington Spirit vs. Denver Summit - Sunday, July 26 | 7:00 PM ET (Victory+)

Angel City vs. Racing Louisville - Sunday, July 26 | 9:00 PM ET (ESPN, ESPN app)

If San Diego beats Seattle and Gotham and Washington both lose, the Wave will sit at 31 points and retake the top spot on the table.

With a win over Chicago, Orlando Pride will comfortably slot back into playoff position.

North Carolina Courage need to win their next match to stay in the playoff zone.

Why it matters: The race for the Shield is in full effect. Washington Spirit and Gotham FC are neck and neck at the top, with San Diego right behind. The only way this stays the same next week is if all three teams win. The race for playoff spots is equally intense. Orlando, Bay FC, and Denver are within striking distance of playoff positioning. If North Carolina and Angel City are to keep their playoff spots, they have to win.

After a rousing victory in front of the home crowd last week, US favorite and newly-minted Denver Summit captain Lindsey Heaps is truly back. Heaps and the Summit head east for a sure to be intense game against league leaders Washington Spirit. Nothing says welcome back to the NWSL quite like a trip to Rowdy Audi.

The top 5 teams are within three points of each other. Washington and Gotham are only separated by goal differential.

This weekend, the Houston Dash’s youthful lineup, including rookie scoring leader Kat Rader, Maggie Graham, Linda Ullmark and Kate Faasse, will face off against another team with an up-and-coming young core, Bay FC. Karlie Lema is hitting her stride for Bay in her second season in the league, scoring a brace in just two minutes against the Courage. With Kennedy Fuller, Claire Hutton, and Alex Pfeiffer all in the mix, it’s bound to be a fun matchup.

Portland Thorns vs. Gotham FC will be a matchup of some of the United States Women’s National Team's best attacking talent. Portland’s deadly duo of Sophia Wilson and Olivia Moultrie face off against Gotham’s electric Rose Lavelle and Jaedyn Shaw.
