It was a long few weeks without NWSL action, but even though the league was on summer break, players showed up and showed out on the international stage. In the three big global tournaments – UEFA Women's EURO, Women's Africa Cup of Nations, and Copa América Femenina – the NWSL was represented.

And all three champions – England, Nigeria, and Brazil – had at least two NWSL players on their roster.

The Lionesses went back-to-back in the Euro, defeating Spain in penalty kicks. When England lifted the trophy, three NWSL players were part of the pack. Gotham FC’s Jess Carter, Washington Spirit’s Esme Morgan, and Orlando Pride’s Anna Moorhouse all made their country and league proud with the win.

Even though England walked away with the title, there were still shining moments for NWSL players throughout the tournament.

It’s no surprise Esther González earned the tournament’s Golden Boot, scoring four goals throughout.

San Diego’s Delphine Cascarino scored two goals and two assists for her native France and her stunning goal against the Netherlands was voted “Goal of the Tournament” by the UEFA Technical Observers. Cascarino also earned Play of the Match honors not once, but twice.

Seattle’s Jess Fishlock made history for Wales, scoring the country’s first goal at a major tournament. Her 48 goals in 164 caps is the all-time record for any Welsh player, and she’s also now the oldest scorer in Women's Euro history.

Gotham’s Ann-Katrin Berger put on a show during Germany’s run, most notably in the quarterfinals against France. With Germany down to just 10 players, AKB made nine saves, prevented an own goal with a leaping save, blocked two penalty kicks, and scored a PK of her own.

Washington’s Sofia Cantore earned three assists for Italy.

Utah’s Janni Thomsen scored a goal for Denmark.

Angel City’s Sveindis Jonsdottir scored a goal and an assist for Iceland.

Chicago’s Natalia Kuikka scored a goal for Finland.

Nigeria completed what the team called “Mission X” in style, coming from behind to beat Morocco, 3-2. Houston’s Michelle Alozie and Bay’s Asisat Oshoala come back stateside victorious.

Oshoala opened up scoring for Nigeria in the country’s first game of the tournament, and Alozie notched the game-winning goal that sent the team to the finals. Alozie even earned Best XI honors for the tournament.

Other NWSL highlights include:

Bay FC’s Racheal Kundananji notched three goals and an assist for Zambia.

Orlando’s Barbra Banda scored three goals for Zambia.

Boston Legacy’s Aïssata Traoré scored two goals for Mali.

Gotham FC’s Stella Nyamekye scored a goal for Ghana.

The Copa América Femenina championship was nothing short of intense. Brazil ultimately beat Colombia in penalty kicks, pulling away with their ninth Copa title thanks to last minute heroics from Orlando Pride’s Marta. With an equalizing goal in the final seconds of regulation and a go-ahead goal in extra time, Marta earned player of the tournament honors.

But she wasn’t alone. Kansas City’s Lorena was steadfast in goal, blocking the final Colombian PK to win the match, while Orlando Pride’s Angelina scored the first half equalizer.

Other NWSL highlights include:

Marta’s scoring wasn’t relegated to just the finals. She scored two goals and earned three assists in the tournament overall.

In addition to the goal in the final game, Angelina earned three assists.

Washington’s Leicy Santos scored two goals in the tournament, including a free kick goal in the final against Brazil.

San Diego’s first Brazilian signing, Dudinha, notched a goal and an assist.
