NEW YORK (September 29, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced the slate of events surrounding the 2025 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, headlined by the league’s Championship match airing in prime time on the CBS Television Network and streaming on Paramount+ at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 22, at PayPal Park in San Jose, California.

This year’s event lineup will feature the first-ever NWSL Awards, presented by AT&T, a new signature event celebrating the top players, coaches and performances of the 2025 season.

Wednesday, November 19The NWSL Awards, presented by AT&T, will honor the standout players, coaches and teams from the 2025 season. Featuring arrivals on a custom AT&T blue carpet, special recognitions and the She’s Connected Lounge, the event will bring together the league’s stars, partners and the broader soccer community for a landmark celebration of excellence in women’s soccer.

Awards to be presented include:

Best XI, presented by Amazon Prime

Most Valuable Player, presented by AT&T

Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally

Goalkeeper of the Year, presented by e.l.f.

Defender of the Year

Coach of the Year

Midfielder of the Year

Golden Boot

The winner of the 2025 Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, will also be revealed during the program.

The event will air live from the San Jose Civic on ESPN2 at 2:30 p.m. PT / 5:30 p.m. ET. The event is closed to the general public.

Thursday, November 20

On Thursday evening, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@WomensGameMiB" target="blank">*The Women’s Game</a> LIVE will be hosted by Sam Mewis, alongside special guests. Additional details will be shared in the coming weeks.

Friday, November 21This year’s Inclusion Summit, “Women In Sport”, presented by Ally, e.l.f., and Nationwide, will convene thought leaders from across sports and business to explore the future of women’s sports. A dedicated C-Suite cohort, in partnership with Pro Sports Assembly, will follow the event, bringing together senior executives to advance leadership industry-wide. Attendance is by invitation only.

The third annual NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, will take place Friday evening beginning at 5 p.m. PT at Spartan Soccer Complex at San Jose State University, featuring NWSL stars competing in three skills: Relay, Gauntlet, and Crossbar Challenge for a $30,000 prize pool, courtesy of CarMax. Fans will have the opportunity to meet participants following the competition.

Tickets for this year's event will be available for purchase in October. Fans are encouraged to sign up here to be notified when tickets go on sale.

The event will also be nationally broadcast on the CBS Television Network and streamed on Paramount+ on Saturday, November 29, at 10:30 a.m. PT / 1:30 p.m. ET. Last year, the NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, became the most-viewed NWSL event in history.

Rosters for the event will be announced at a later date.

Saturday, November 22The league’s fifth annual NWSL Fan Fest, taking place at The Lot at Creekside at 140 S. Montgomery Street in San Jose, will welcome supporters with interactive games, sponsor activations, food and beverage options, and music. The event will run from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. PT and is free and open to the public.

Complimentary shuttles will run between Creekside and PayPal Park before and after the match, in addition to public transportation options.

At 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET, the 2025 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, will kick off at PayPal Park in San Jose, airing on CBS and streaming on Paramount+, with international coverage on NWSL+ and global broadcast partners. Pregame coverage begins at 4:30 p.m. PT / 7:30 p.m. ET on CBS and Paramount+. Additional coverage will be announced at a later date.

Following the final whistle, fans are invited to continue the celebration at INDIVISA HQ: The Official NWSL Post-Game Party at San Pedro Square Market in San Jose. The event is free and open to the public.

For more information on this year’s schedule of events, or to purchase tickets to the 2025 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, please visit nwslsoccer.com/championship.
