NEW YORK (August 24, 2023) –

In celebration of OL Reign forward Megan Rapinoe’s final regular season home match, the National Women’s Soccer League today announced that OL Reign’s October 6 contest against the Washington Spirit, originally set for a 10 p.m. ET kickoff at Lumen Field in Seattle, has been moved to primetime and will now air at 5 p.m. PT/8 p.m. ET on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+.

NEW YORK (August 24, 2023) – In celebration of OL Reign forward Megan Rapinoe’s final regular season home match, the National Women’s Soccer League today announced that OL Reign’s October 6 contest against the Washington Spirit, originally set for a 10 p.m. ET kickoff at Lumen Field in Seattle, has been moved to primetime and will now air at 5 p.m. PT/8 p.m. ET on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+.

Rapinoe, who has spent the entirety of her NWSL career with OL Reign, will retire from professional soccer at the conclusion of the 2023 season. “Megan’s remarkable impact on the National Women’s Soccer League and the global women’s sports community has been truly inspiring to witness,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “The success she achieved on the pitch throughout her career has been nothing short of extraordinary, but it’s her off-field efforts to make our game an accessible, fair and inclusive space for all that have truly cemented her as a trailblazer. I have no doubt that her legacy as both an athlete and an advocate will continue to drive meaningful change beyond the pitch for years to come, and I wish her nothing but success as she begins this new chapter.” “Megan Rapinoe is a global icon in the sport of soccer and has been an integral part of the success of the NWSL over its 11-year history,” said Dan Weinberg, EVP Programming, CBS Sports. “We are excited to partner with the NWSL to fittingly honor her with a primetime sendoff on CBS and Paramount+.” In addition to the match’s updated timeslot and platform change, Rapinoe’s retirement celebration will include a pregame ceremony featuring several in-stadium activations at Lumen Field. CBS Sports Golazo Network, the free 24-hour soccer streaming network in the U.S. offering fans unparalleled coverage of all the top domestic and international soccer competitions, will also provide comprehensive coverage throughout the week of Rapinoe’s final home match. The Network will cover every angle of Rapinoe’s farewell season across its live studio programming, including MORNING FOOTY, BOX 2 BOX and ATTACKING THIRD, which since its launch two years ago has become the leading women’s soccer brand across social platforms and podcasts. Now in her 11th season with OL Reign, Rapinoe is one of 10 players to make an appearance in every NWSL regular season and one of just five to have played her entire career with the same club. Appearing in over 100 matches in the NWSL, Rapinoe has tallied more than 50 goals, notched 27 assists and holds the league’s all-time record in penalty-kick goals with 13. The Redding, California native has also been named to six end-of-year Best XI and Second Best XI teams throughout her tenure. Throughout her time in the NWSL, Rapinoe enjoyed an illustrious career as a member of the U.S. Women’s National Team, where she featured in over 200 matches, four FIFA Women’s World Cups and three Olympic Games. A two-time World Cup champion and Olympic gold medalist, Rapinoe also received numerous accolades, including the 2019 Ballon d'Or Féminin, the 2019 World Cup Golden Boot and a selection to the 2020 FIFPro Women’s World XI. Prior to joining the NWSL in 2013, Rapinoe competed in D1 Féminine, the Australian W-League, WPSL and WPS. An All-American, she played college soccer at the University of Portland. For her efforts on and off the pitch, Rapinoe, a fervent advocate for inclusion and equality in sport, became the first soccer player to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country’s highest civilian honor, in July of 2022 and earlier this year was named one of TIME Magazine’s 2023 Women of the Year. Due to demand for tickets, OL Reign has expanded capacity at Lumen Field to this event. Tickets to Rapinoe’s final regular season home match are available for purchase at olreign.com.
