SAN DIEGO (November 7, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League and CBS Sports today announced multiplatform coverage details and announcers for the 2023 Ally NWSL Championship airing live in primetime on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+ (live for Paramount+ with SHOWTIME subscribers)*. The 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, featuring No. 4 OL Reign and No. 6 NJ/NY Gotham FC, kicks off at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11, at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California. Pre-match coverage on CBS begins at 7:30 p.m. ET.

SAN DIEGO (November 7, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League and CBS Sports today announced multiplatform coverage details and announcers for the 2023 Ally NWSL Championship airing live in primetime on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+ (live for Paramount+ with SHOWTIME subscribers)*. The 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, featuring No. 4 OL Reign and No. 6 NJ/NY Gotham FC, kicks off at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11, at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California. Pre-match coverage on CBS begins at 7:30 p.m. ET.

Veteran broadcaster Jacqui Oatley will call the match from the booth alongside former U.S. Women’s National Team midfielder and color analyst Lori Lindsey, while former England Women’s National Team forward Lianne Sanderson and CBS Sports reporter Tiffany Blackmon will provide commentary from the sidelines. In addition, former NWSL and USWNT goalkeeper Jill Loyden will serve as the show’s goalkeeper expert, while CBS Sports’ Christina Unkel will provide rules analysis. CBS Sports will provide two hours of pre-match coverage beginning at 6 p.m. ET with an hour-long episode of the “Attacking Third” women’s soccer show on CBS Sports Golazo Network live from San Diego. Coverage continues live from Snapdragon Stadium with the 2023 NWSL Championship Pregame Show, presented by Ally, hosted by CBS Sports’ Poppy Miller from 7 p.m. ET until kickoff. The first 30 minutes of the show will stream exclusively on CBS Sports Golazo Network before moving to the CBS Television Network and Paramount+ for the remainder of the program. Miller will be joined by analysts Jordan Angeli and Carli Lloyd, alongside Blackmon and Sanderson, to discuss the 2023 season and preview the Championship match. Fans tuning into the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, internationally can stream the match live on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com. More information regarding this year’s announcers can be found below.

*Paramount+ with SHOWTIME subscribers will have access to stream live via the live feed of their local CBS affiliate on the service.

Jacqui Oatley brings 20 years of sports broadcasting experience to the NWSL, covering both men’s and women’s soccer. Oatley has announced a variety of international soccer events, including FIFA World Cups, UEFA European Championships and Olympic Games. Oatley currently serves as a commentator on Sky Sports’ Women’s Super League and men’s Premier League worldwide coverage. The first female play-by-play commentator on BBC Match of the Day, Oatley was a regular sports presenter on the BBC News Channel between 2011 and 2013. Most recently, the broadcaster provided play-by-play for FOX Sports during the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar and 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand.

Lori Lindsey is a former U.S. Women’s National Team Player whose professional playing career spanned 13 years, with her most notable accomplishment representing the United States Women’s National Team at the 2011 Women’s World Cup in Germany, and helping the team earn the 2012 Olympic Gold Medal in London. Lindsey is one of only four players to have played in all three of the U.S. professional women’s soccer leagues and now works in broadcast calling matches with ESPN, FOX Sports, and CBS Sports. Lindsey currently serves as a lead analyst for the inaugural MLS + Apple TV Season Pass deal.

Lianne Sanderson returns to the NWSL as an analyst after a successful playing career, where she featured for various clubs in the WPS, WSL and NWSL, including the Boston Breakers, Orlando Pride and Portland Thorns FC, during a successful playing career. On the international stage, Sanderson earned 50 caps as a member of the England Women’s National Team, making her debut in May of 2006. She went on to represent the team at both the 2007 and 2015 FIFA Women’s World Cup as well as the UEFA Women’s European Championship in 2009. In addition to her sideline reporting role on CBS matches this season, Sanderson served in the same capacity for a number of CBS Sports Network and Paramount+ contests.

Tiffany Blackmon currently serves as a sideline reporter for CBS Sports’ coverage of college football and the NFL. She was previously a sports reporter for ESPN College Football and spent more than five years with NFL Media as a reporter and Atlanta-based correspondent for NFL Network, contributing field reports for NFL Network’s shows, including NFL Total Access, Around the NFL, Path to the Draft, NFL GameDay Morning and more.

Poppy Miller serves as host of CBS Sports' Serie A studio show Calcio e Cappuccino, a host for CBS Sports Golazo Network's Box 2 Box, Scoreline and Attacking Third, and is an analyst for CBS Sports’ Concacaf Women's coverage. Miller has also worked covering athletics across the SEC Network, Major League Soccer and for the Charleston Battery.

Jordan Angeli is currently working for the Colorado Rapids in MLS as their face of Apple content and as an analyst for CBS Sports Golazo Network’s Attacking Third show. She spent 3 years as the lead analyst for the Columbus Crew in MLS on Bally Sports after becoming the first woman in the Crew’s history to hold a full time TV-analyst position. Prior to her time at Columbus Crew, she worked as both a radio analyst and an in-stadium host with the Colorado Rapids. A former player in the NWSL, Angeli’s career includes time spent with the Boston Breakers, Western New York Flash, and the Washington Spirit. The 2023 season marks Angeli’s eighth year on the NWSL’s broadcast team.

Carli Lloyd closed a storied career in the NWSL and on the international stage in 2021. Her on-field resume includes nine NWSL seasons where she scored 43 regular season goals, good for 10th on the all-time leaderboard. In addition, Lloyd is a two-time Women’s World Cup champion and three-time Olympic gold medalist with the U.S. Women’s National Team. Since retiring, Lloyd has worked with FOX Sports, covering events such as the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar and the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand.

Jill Loyden is a former member of the U.S. Women’s National Team and veteran goalkeeper with experience in the NWSL, WPS and the Australian W-League. After retiring from playing professional soccer, Loyden opened The Keeper Institute headquarters to begin her coaching career in summer of 2015. She served as the goalkeeper coach for Sky Blue FC for the 2016 and 2017 seasons and worked with the U.S. Youth National Teams in the same capacity. Loyden has also served as a color analyst for ESPN.

Christina Unkel is a VAR-certified PRO referee and past FIFA referee who has been officiating soccer for 21 years. She currently serves as a Rules Analyst for CBS Sports and previously analyzed the 2019 Women’s World Cup for Fox Sports and the 2022 UEFA Women’s Euros.
