With Gotham FC and the Thorns away in Mexico competing in the Concacaf W Champions Cup final and third place matches, there were only six games in Week 10, but that didn’t mean there were any less fireworks. A first-half hat trick, 27 goals across the league, and another weekend of road warriors kept NWSL fans entertained from start to finish. Here’s everything you might have missed from a wild Week 10!

After a disappointing spate of losses, the Pride returned to winning form with a 3-1 road win over the Utah Royals on Friday night to kick off Week 10. Leading the charge for the defending champions was the 2024 NWSL Championship MVP herself, Barbra Banda, who scored a first-half hat trick to clinch the win. Banda opened the scoring in the 6th minute on a cross from Ally Watt then capitalized on a back pass in the 37th minute before adding a third goal just over a minute later after a long assist from Haley McCutcheon. Utah equalized briefly in the 14th through Brecken Mozingo but Banda’s flurry of goals was enough to secure Orlando’s sixth win of the season. Banda became the first player in Orlando history to record a hat trick and just the second in NWSL history to score all three goals in the first half.

Washington Spirit matched a league record with their fifth straight road win to start the season, defeating Seattle Reign FC 2-1 at Lumen Field. Croix Bethune opened the scoring in the 7th minute with a quick finish off a Casey Krueger assist. Shae Holmes equalized for the Reign just minutes later but Ashley Hatch put the Spirit back in front with her sixth goal of the season in the 35th minute, finishing a low cross from Gift Monday. With her goal, Hatch has now tied Megan Rapinoe for most regular season game-winners for one club (18). Aubrey Kingsbury preserved the win with a diving save late in the match to close out the win and by the end of the weekend, the Spirit moved up to fourth place in the standings.

Kansas City Current continued their top of the table dominance with a 3-1 road win over Chicago Stars FC. Bia Zaneratto opened the scoring in the 34th minute and assisted another goal seven minutes later, setting up Temwa Chawinga’s sixth of the season. Chicago pulled one back through Shea Groom early in the second half, but Kayla Sharples restored the two-goal cushion with a header from a set piece—her third of the season. The win was KC’s third straight victory and keeps them four points clear of the second place San Diego Wave.

Bay FC and Houston Dash played to a 2-2 draw in a back-and-forth match at Shell Energy Stadium. Houston struck first in the 30th minute with a long-range effort from Avery Patterson but Bay responded quickly in the second half with goals from Penelope Hocking and Rachel Hill in the 53rd and 56th minutes. Messiah Bright salvaged a point for the Dash in the 88th minute, slotting home her first goal for the Dash. Bay FC and the Dash sit together in the standings in 11th and 12th place respectively headed into the international break but with the season far from over, they both have plenty of time to adjust and fight for a playoff spot.

Racing Louisville earned a gritty 3-2 road win over Angel City FC despite going down to 10 players in the 67th minute. Taylor Flint converted a first-half penalty and after Riley Tiernan leveled the match in the 48th, Emma Sears and Savannah DeMelo responded with goals just minutes apart to make it 3-1. A red card to Kayla Fischer gave Angel City a lifeline. Alyssa Thompson converted from the spot to make it 3-2, but Louisville held firm with strong goalkeeping from Jordyn Bloomer to close out the match.

To close out the weekend on a high note for any NWSL fans looking for a goal fest, San Diego Wave FC exploded for a club-record five goals in a 5-2 win over North Carolina Courage at home on Sunday evening. After going down early to a Feli Rauch header, the Wave responded through goals from Perle Morroni, a brace from Adriana Leon, Kristen McNabb, and María Sánchez. The Courage equalized early in the second half through Manaka Matsukubo, but San Diego quickly responded with three unanswered goals. The Wave now have the most goals in the league through 10 games and extended their unbeaten streak to a club-record six matches. Morroni and McNabb became the Wave’s 12th and 13th different goal scorers this season, giving San Diego the most unique scorers of any team in the league so far.
