How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

For details on specific matches and where to watch in these territories, click here.

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs. Orlando Pride - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Washington Spirit hasn’t been this in-form since their prolific 2021 season. They’re home this week, hosting another team who’s been in exceptional form this season: Orlando Pride. The Pride are still unbeaten and coming off of a massive home win against the 2023 NWSL Shield winners. Who will come out on top in the weekend’s first matchup?

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. Kansas City Current - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime

Kansas City currently sits at the top of the table, and proudly claim two of the top goal scorers in the league this season–Temwa Chawinga and Bia Zaneratto. They’re on the road this Friday evening and playing in a stadium they’ve never seen victory–BMO Stadium–against a team who also has the momentum of success on their side after they defeated North Carolina Courage in Los Angeles last weekend.

Matchup: North Carolina Courage vs. Seattle Reign FC - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Reign FC is looking to reverse the trajectory of their season and get on the scoreboard fast but they’ll be trying to do so in an environment that hasn’t seen a home loss since April 15, 2023. Will they end that long streak of WakeMed victories?

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Portland Thorns - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

It’s USWNT darling vs. USWNT darling as Mal Swanson’s Chicago Red Stars host Sophia Smith’s Portland Thorns in one of the most eagerly anticipated matchups of the weekend! Both teams are coming off of well-earned wins – the Red Stars in Seattle and the Thorns at home in front of their loyal fans. The Red Stars are sitting third in the standings headed into the weekend and with a win, could move up the table. Meanwhile, the Thorns, after a rough start to the season, are looking for any points so they can begin the long climb into the top 8.

Matchup: Utah Royals FC vs. Houston Dash - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

The Royals are still figuring things out this season, but it’s not time to worry yet. With forward Ally Sentnor involved in the club’s last three goals and rookie Olivia Smith Griffits ready to play a bigger role for the team, this squad has a lot of potential. Meanwhile, the Dash are away and as a team that historically travels very well, this may be the perfect match for them to shake things up. Who will come out on top in Utah?

Matchup: San Diego Wave vs. Bay FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

California may have been fashionably late to the NWSL party, but the state’s three clubs have more than compensated with a whirlwind of flair, electrifying stadiums, and sheer unpredictability. This weekend's clash between the San Diego and San Jose franchises marks a historic first encounter, promising to uphold the state's reputation for captivating soccer showdowns, surely making it a must watch for anyone who didn’t have Saturday plans (and if you do, cancel them). Who will win the first San Diego vs. San Jose clash in league history?

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Racing Louisville FC - 5:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Louisville is coming off of a massive five-goal victory at home, and with the momentum on their side plus the fact that they’ve never lost in Red Bull Arena, this weekend could see them extending their unbeaten streak. The stage is set for a showdown of epic proportions, featuring two of the league's top goal-scoring talents – the prolific Lynn Williams and Nigerian sensation Uchenna Kanu – making it a fitting conclusion to an exciting weekend of NWSL matches.
