The Canadian Women’s National team shined on the international stage at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021 en route to the squad’s first gold medal. With a major tournament victory under their belt, the reigning Olympic champions will look to keep their share of dominance on the global stage and capture their first World Cup title this summer.

The Canadian Women’s National team shined on the international stage at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021 en route to the squad’s first gold medal. With a major tournament victory under their belt, the reigning Olympic champions will look to keep their share of dominance on the global stage and capture their first World Cup title this summer.Portland Thorns FC and Team Canada captain Christine Sinclair leads the team with poise and confidence in what is likely to be the 40-year-old’s final World Cup. With a record 190 goals and more than 300 caps across her 22-year career, Sinclair is the most prolific scorer in all of international soccer.

Other NWSL players to feature for Canada this summer include a trio of Houston Dash mainstays in midfielder Sophie Schmidt, defender Allysha Chapman, and forward Nichelle Prince. Notably, Schmidt is set to appear in her fifth World Cup. OL Reign also have a pair of players on the Canadian national team in forward Jordyn Huitema and midfielder Quinn, who made history in 2021 when they became the first out, nonbinary athlete to compete, medal and win a gold medal at the Olympics. 2022 NWSL Goalkeeper of the Year and Best XI selection Kailen Sheridan is the sole Canadian representative for San Diego Wave FC and will anchor the Canadian defense. Washington Spirit defender Gabrielle Carle, who has previous World Cup experience from the 2019 event, will join the team for her second-straight tournament.

Team Canada will be without one of its veteran players in Kansas City Current captain and midfielder Desiree Scott. The 35-year-old, who has appeared in 11 World Cup matches for the Canadians, led the Current to a 10-6-6 campaign that ended in an exciting Championship run in 2022. The Canadian Women’s National Team opens its World Cup campaign on July 20th against Nigeria. Kickoff is set for 10:30 p.m. ET.
