New York (March 26, 2026) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced a multi-year partnership with The Women’s Sports Network (a FAST Studios network) to expand the league’s content distribution and athlete storytelling across linear and digital platforms through the 2026 and 2027 seasons.

As part of the agreement, The Women’s Sports Network will serve as an official media partner, delivering:

A new weekly NWSL highlights show featuring match highlights

Game clips and highlights across The Women’s Sports Network’s YouTube channel

Special episodes of the network's flagship studio show GAME ON, filmed on the road at NWSL stadium locations

Original, athlete-led programming designed to give fans deeper access to their favorite clubs and players, including episodes of The World According To…

Archival footage dating back to the league’s 2017 season

The collaboration reflects the NWSL’s broader strategy to extend fan engagement beyond live matches through always-on content and storytelling across platforms, while partnering with media distributors that can deliver both scale and a premium viewing environment for fans and brand partners.

“At the NWSL, we're always looking for more ways for people to engage and feel connected with the league," said Servi Barrientos, Director of Media Partnerships for the NWSL. "Having a partner like The Women's Sports Network, which is dedicated to telling the stories of our elite players and clubs, will allow our fans to see their favorites in a multitude of ways."

“The NWSL is one of the most valuable and authentic platforms in sports today for brands to connect with fans,” said Stuart McLean, CEO of FAST Studios. “The league’s fans are clamoring for storytelling around the athletes that power the league, and The Women's Sports Network is thrilled to deliver this content as the 24/7 home of women’s sports, while creating meaningful opportunities to engage with one of the fastest-growing audiences around.”

In addition to weekly programming, The Women’s Sports Network will collaborate with the league on select tentpole moments, including on-site activations and studio integrations, while also working with NWSL teams and players to develop and distribute original series. This includes integration with the network's athlete-driven format, The World According To…, offering players a platform to share their perspectives beyond match play.

The announcement follows continued momentum for the NWSL, which opened its 2026 season with record-breaking attendance. Opening weekend drew 129,202 fans across eight matches (16,150 per match on average), both league records, including more than 30,000 fans at Boston Legacy FC’s inaugural home game—the largest of any inaugural home game in league history—reinforcing the NWSL’s position as one of the fastest-growing properties in sports.

As demand for women’s sports continues to accelerate across media and advertising, the partnership underscores the growing importance of premium, brand-safe environments that can deliver consistent, high-quality content and deeper fan engagement. Through its collaboration with The Women’s Sports Network, the NWSL will further expand how its athletes and stories are experienced by audiences across the U.S.

About The Women’s Sports Network

The Women's Sports Network is the home for women’s sports. A free, ad-supported, 24/7 streaming destination, The Women’s Sports Network is the preferred cable alternative for cord cutters, available across Roku, Samsung TV Plus, Tubi, Amazon Prime Video, Pluto TV, VIZIO WatchFree+, LG Channels on LG Smart TVs, Fubo, Plex and My Free DirecTV.

Launched by FAST Studios in 2022, The Women's Sports Network is the leading destination where fans can see live games, news and exceptional stories across every women’s sport, including the NWSL, LOVB, LPGA, SailGP, U.S. Ski and Snowboard, Women’s Elite Rugby, Pac-12 Conference, and more – finally leveling the playing field for female athletes. For more information, visit: https://womenssports.com.

About National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL)

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, NWSL Atlanta, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.
