Week 12 is upon us! This morning, the league announced the location of the 2025 NWSL Championship presented by Google Pixel: PayPal Park in the Bay Area, home of Bay FC. The announcement is a wakeup call to teams just outside of the playoff picture to dig deep and fight for points. For teams in a better position, it’s a reminder of what all their hard work is going towards. Here’s what to look forward to this weekend!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Paramount+, Golazo, NWSL+

Week 12 starts in Houston, with the Dash hosting San Diego Wave, a team looking to bounce back after a close loss at home last weekend – just their third of the season. Delphine Cascarino was the lone goal scorer for the Wave last weekend,leads the league in assists and will play a huge part for the Wave on Friday. Meanwhile, the Dash will rely on rookie Maggie Graham, who leads the team with three goals, to reverse a string of unfortunate results for the Dash. They'll need a strong collective effort to break down a Wave defense anchored by Kailen Sheridan and Hanna Lundkvist, however.

How to watch: NWSL+

Both Utah and Gotham enter this matchup desperate to snap winless streaks. The Royals fell 3–2 to Louisville last week despite goals from Brecken Mozingo and Bianca St-Georges, while Gotham lost 2–1 loss to Kansas City. Esther González remains Gotham’s top scoring threat with seven goals, third in the league (7, with assists serving as tie breaker), and scored twice in last year’s 4–1 win over Utah. With one of the best defenses in the league, they’ll be a tough nut to crack for Utah regardless of if they have home field advantage or not.

How to watch: Prime Video

Bay FC enters Friday’s primetime clash riding a three-match unbeaten streak, most recently topping Portland 1–0 at home. Penelope Hocking has been on a tear recently, with four goal contributions in her last four games ( three goals and an assist), while Jordan Silkowitz remains a reliable fixture in goal. Orlando, however, has a 2-0-0 record against the Bay Area team and sits second in the standings. The defending champions aren’t having the near perfect season they had last season but they still have one of the stingiest defenses in the league. Barbra Banda, second in the league in goals (seven, with assists serving as tie breaker), remains the focal point of the Pride’s offense but if Bay can contain her, they might come away with a point (or three).

How to watch: ION

Chicago returns to Soldier Field still seeking their first win since Week 3. Ludmila leads the team with two goals, but overall offensive output has been limited. Perhaps their 2-2 draw last weekend is the spark of life they need to revitalize their attack. Seattle arrives on a high after a 2–1 road win over San Diego, a result that lifted them to fifth in the table. With Maddie Dahlien and Emeri Adames shining, the Reign could extend Chicago’s winless run to eight.

How to watch: ION

League leaders Kansas City return home on a four-game winning streak and are unbeaten at home this season. Temwa Chawinga leads the league with seven goals (with assists serving as tiebreaker) and continues to spearhead. Racing Louisville, however, are also in strong form with four wins in their last six and are unbeaten in four straight road games. Emma Sears leads Racing with six goals, sixth in the league in goals, including two game-winners. Jordyn Bloomer has stepped up in a big way with starting goalkeeper Katie Lund out for the season and will be vital in their fight to come away with points this weekend.

How to watch: ION

After three matches now without a win, Saturday night is the perfect time for Angel City to snap a three-match winless streak as they welcome a Courage team coming off a 3–1 loss to Washington. Riley Tiernan and Alyssa Thompson continue to power Angel City’s attack, combining for 11 goals this season, but have been efficiently held at bay recently. North Carolina’s young Japanese talent Manaka Matsukubo has been a bright spot for the team from Cary, scoring the lone goal last weekend, a crafty chip. She could be the difference maker this weekend.

How to Watch: CBS, Paramount+

Week 12 concludes with a brunchtime showdown at Providence Park as the unbeaten-at-home Thorns host a red hot Spirit team on a five-game away winning streak. It’s the ultimate immovable object versus unstoppable force matchup. Washington rolled to a 3–1 win over North Carolina last weekend thanks to goals from Brittany Ratcliffe, Courtney Brown, and Gift Monday and currently sit third in the standings. Meanwhile, Portland was held scoreless by Bay FC last weekend and will need to turn to Jayden Perry and Reilyn Turner to reignite their attack. The Thorns have historically had the loudest fanbase in the league, but the Spirit have made a habit of silencing crowds on the road this season.
