NEW YORK (Tuesday, February 4) - Today, Prime Video greenlit a new docuseries from Words + Pictures tracking the 2024 National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) playoffs through the experiences of some of the games brightest stars. The documentary will premiere exclusively on Prime Video in more than 240 countries and territories worldwide, and is the latest addition to the Prime membership. Prime members enjoy savings, convenience, and entertainment, all in a single membership.

For the Win: NWSL is an immersive 4-part docuseries offering unprecedented access into the 2024 National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) playoffs and Championship. The series will take fans behind the scenes of one of the most thrilling seasons in NWSL history, chronicling the intensity, resilience, and passion that define the league’s top teams and star players as they battle for the ultimate prize: the Championship trophy.

With players like Alex Morgan and defending 2024 NWSL Champion Orlando Pride legend Marta solidifying their legacies and emerging stars like Trinity Rodman and Croix Bethune from the Washington Spirit picking up the torch, the series delves into the lives of the athletes who have become icons on and off the field. Through exclusive interviews, locker-room access, and heart-pounding match highlights, the documentary captures the nostalgia, emotion, and fierce competition that shapes a playoff run within the fastest growing league in the world.

Presented by Prime Video Sports, For the Win: NWSL is produced by Words + Pictures in association with the NWSL, with Marie Margolius directing. The series is executive produced by Connor Schell and Libby Geist of Words + Pictures, Eli Manning of Ten Till, and Alex Morgan of TOGETHXR.

Prime Video is also home to the 2025 Challenge Cup, which will feature a rematch of last year’s championship when Rodman and the Washington Spirit take on Marta and the Orlando Pride on Friday, March 7. Prime Video will kick off a 25-game regular season Friday night schedule on March 14 when Orlando hosts the newly minted Chicago Stars FC.
