This weekend could bring one of the league’s most glorious sights: a team lifting a trophy. The action starts early on Thursday night with a clash that carries major NWSL Shield implications, setting the tone for a packed slate. Here’s what’s on tap across the league.

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

<a href="https://plus.nwslsoccer.com/video/859752" target="_blank">WATCH THE REPLAY</a>

Week 21 kicks off in Los Angeles and it’s a game that has NWSL Shield implications. A loss or draw here and the Shield is virtually out of reach for the Spirit. A win and they ensure they’re still in the race for the top spot in the league. Angel City will surely make it difficult for the visitors with their energetic home fans behind them, Sveindís Jónsdóttir now scoring, and the rest of the team smarting from a tough loss last weekend. For the Spirit, they’re in clinical form despite their most recent match results. A brace from Trinity Rodman the week prior is an indicator she’s back and better than ever, and last weekend’s draw was merely a fluke or because of a stingy Current defense. This match is the perfect way for NWSL fans to get their excitement levels up just before the rest of the games.

How to watch: NWSL+

Two of the league’s hottest post-summer-break teams meet Friday night in Houston, a matchup few would have predicted back in the spring to be a competitive one. The Dash, fresh off a rare stumble, remain formidable with Messiah Bright, Yazmeen Ryan, and Michelle Alozie now joined by midseason addition Clarissa Larisey, who has already made her presence felt. The Stars counter with the electric partnership of Jameese Joseph and Ludmila and the staunch defense of Sam Staab and goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher. Both Joseph and Ludmila had good looks on goal last weekend in a draw that extended Chicago’s unbeaten run to seven. Expect another fast-paced battle, with counterattacking chaos on both ends.

How to watch: Prime Video

If you watched last weekend, you’ll know the Courage aren’t lacking in goal scorers despite the recent departure of Jaedyn Shaw. Manaka Matsukubo stepped up to put in a quick goal against Angel City, assisted by midseason signing Payton Linnehan, and Brianna Pinto put in the second to seal a win. If they can keep their offense consistently scoring, that paired with a defense led by eternal “Ironwoman” Kaleigh Kurtz would make the Courage a team to be feared once again. Orlando, however, shouldn’t be counted out despite only being able to grab three points since the end of the summer break. With clutch players like Marta, Ally Watt, and now, Jacquie Ovalle, goals are always around the corner.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

The Utah Royals have quietly built one of the league’s hottest streaks since the summer, capped by a standout win over a confident Houston side last weekend. The return of Cloé Lacasse has boosted their attack, while Mandy McGlynn’s saves and Paige Monaghan’s leadership and goals have anchored their recent rise. Racing Louisville now awaits, and while Savannah DeMelo’s absence is a major blow, Taylor Flint’s aerial presence and Emma Sears’s tireless energy keep them dangerous. It’s a fitting finale to Friday’s slate, and just the start of the NWSL weekend.

How to watch: ION

By Saturday night, Kansas City fans could be celebrating the club’s first-ever NWSL trophy. After last year’s heartbreak – falling just a goal short of reaching the final in their own stadium – the Current have turned their “revenge season” into a statement campaign. The fastest team in league history to 50 points, they’ve been dominant at both ends of the pitch, pairing clinical finishing with a record-breaking defense. If results elsewhere fall their way, Kansas City can clinch the Shield at home this weekend, provided they continue their ruthless form. For Seattle, that means a daunting challenge: facing a team as relentless and motivated as any in the league.

How to watch: ION

If Kansas City vs. Seattle isn’t enough chaos, fourth versus fifth offers just as much drama. The Wave enter this weekend now goalless in three straight and coming off a heavy home defeat to Gotham. Now they head to Providence Park, one of the league’s most unforgiving venues, needing their French trio — Delphine Cascarino, Perle Morroni, and Kenza Dali — plus Kimmi Ascanio and Adriana Leon to spark a turnaround. The Thorns, meanwhile, thrive on late-game heroics and won’t make it easy. This match has major playoff implications and is a great indicator for how competitive the middle of the playoff table still is.

How to watch: ESPN2, ESPN+

And last but not least, the weekend wraps with a West Coast vs. East Coast showdown at the future site of the 2025 NWSL Championship. Gotham FC, looking every bit like their 2023 title-winning selves, arrive in ruthless form. Golden Boot leader Esther González continues to torment defenses, supported by one of the league’s top midfields in Jaelin Howell – who’s contributed to scoring in back-to-back matches – and the ever-creative Rose Lavelle. Add Jaedyn Shaw, who marked her debut with a goal last weekend, and Gotham have weapons everywhere. Bay FC, though, won’t back down. Fresh off a draw in Orlando, they’ll lean on Racheal Kundananji’s speed and Caprice Dydasco’s pinpoint service to test Gotham’s back line in what promises to be the perfect way to end our weekend.
