ESPN reported in early June that US Women’s National Team forward Mia Fishel was in discussions with NWSL clubs about transferring from Chelsea, and since then, fans have speculated where she might land.

Now, the mystery is solved.

Seattle Reign FC announced on July 10 that they were signing Fishel to a multi-year contract through the 2029 season.

“I’m incredibly excited to sign a long-term contract in the NWSL and take this next step in my career with Seattle Reign FC,” said Fishel in a press release. “This league is one of the best in the world, and I’m looking forward to the opportunity. I can’t wait to get started and contribute to the team’s success.”

Seattle teased the signing of Fishel, also known as "Big Fish," on X the night before the announcement.

"Gone fishing," the post said, simply.

Fishel was drafted fifth overall by the Orlando Pride in the 2022 NWSL Draft, but began her professional career with the Tigres UANL in Liga MX Femenil, where she burst onto the scene. In her rookie season, she scored 17 goals in 17 games, becoming the first foreign player to ever win the Liga MX Femenil Golden Boot. Tigres also went on to win the league title.

The winning ways went with her to Chelsea, where she spent the last two seasons, in which the club won back-to-back Women’s Super League titles. Fishel was part of the Chelsea team that won its sixth FA Women’s Cup title and third FA Women’s League Cup title.

Despite being sidelined by an ACL tear in 2024, Fishel scored two goals in 14 matches with Chelsea, including a goal in her debut.

Fishel earned her first call up for the USWNT in 2020 and won the Golden Ball at the 2020 CONCACAF U-20 Championships after scoring 13 goals throughout the tournament, setting a new all-ages record for scoring in a qualifying tournament. As a UCLA Bruin, Fishel scored 32 goals in 59 matches.

Head Coach Laura Harvey said Fishel’s future in Seattle is bright.

“We’re absolutely thrilled to bring Mia into our squad,” said Seattle Reign FC Head Coach Laura Harvey. “She’s a forward with world-class potential who’s already accomplished so much in her young career. Mia’s ability to disrupt defenses, finish in different ways makes her a dangerous addition to our group. We’re excited to help her take the next step and can’t wait to see her on the field soon.”

Seattle entered the summer break sitting in sixth place. The Reign return to action against Angel City FC on August 1.
