Angel City FC announced Friday morning that star forward Alyssa Thompson transferred to Chelsea FC. The blockbuster deal sent ripples through the soccer world.

Thompson is a cornerstone of the Angel City offense who has orchestrated memorable play after memorable play. As Thompson takes this next step in her career, we’re looking back at some of her most iconic NWSL moments over the years.

Who could forget her 2024 run of five goals in five games? After being held goalless in the first half of the season, Thompson came roaring back after the Summer Cup.

The run included a beast mode goal against the Wave, where Thompson maneuvered past the defense and a diving Kailen Sheridan to get the goal.

That game saw Thompson get her very first brace in all competitions.

When Angel City were down against the Wave to kick off this season, it was Thompson who leveled the game in style. It was a top to bottom beautiful team play, from capitalizing on a turnover to a beautiful pass to Thompson putting it into high speed for the finish.

There was the absolute screamer to open up scoring against the Reign in March of this year. The shot sailing into the top right corner was electric, but so was Thomspon’s reaction.

The very next game, Thompson scored a goal and notched an assist for the first time in her NWSL career. First, she helped teammate Riley Tiernan score her second career goal, which turned out to be the game winner against the Dash.

With minutes left in the game, Thompson put the exclamation point on a dominant Angel City win.

Most recently, there was this stunning goal against the Orlando Pride that saw Thompson cut past Marta. It gave Angel City their first win since May, and she marked the moment with the viral “6 7” celebration.

It was a much needed spark for an Angel City team that is still fighting for a playoff spot.

Of course, the most special moment of them all was the sister-sister goal that fans were waiting for. Gisele Thompson scored her first professional goal with help from her very first teammate – Alyssa.

As she begins her next chapter across the pond, it’s the heartwarming moments like this one that fans will remember.
