Courage midfielder Manaka Matsukubo and Nadeshiko Japan took the Silver medal in a 1-0 loss to North Korea while The USYNT defeated the Netherlands 2-1 to come home with the bronze medal.

Gold Medal Match - Sunday, September 22: North Carolina Courage midfielder Manaka Matsukubo and Nadeshiko Japan took the silver medal in a 1-0 loss to North Korea in a match that saw Matsukubo playing all 90 minutes, fresh off a brace from the semifinal victory against the Netherlands.

Bronze Medal Match - Saturday, September 21: The eight young NWSL stars are coming home with a bronze medal after defeating the Netherlands 2-1 in thrilling fasion. The US opened the scoring of a goal from Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor in the 10th minute, her fourth goal of the tournament with Angel City FC defender Gisele Thompson logging the assist. The Netherlands equalized in the 26th minute and played to a stalemate. With penalty kicks on the line, the US battled and found the back of the net in the 119th minute off an own goal from the Netherlands holding on for the last few minutes to secure the bronze medal.

Semifinals - Wednesday, September 18: North Carolina Courage midfielder Manaka Matsukubo and Nadeshiko Japan defeated the Netherlands 2-0 to book at ticket into the Under-20 Women's World Cup Championship match set to take place Sunday, September 22 at 4 p.m. ET. Matsukubo logged a brace during the match scoring in the 55th and 83rd minutes of play.

Earlier in the day, the United States fell to North Korea 1-0 in a match that featured six NWSL players in the starting 11.

Quarterfinals - Sunday, September 15: The United States defeated Germany after a comeback for the history books during an unforgettable victory. Trailing Germany by two, with two minutes left facing elimination the team rallied scoring two goals in two minutes to send the match into overtime and eventually penalty kicks where the U.S. prevailed, 3-1. The first goal scored in the 98th minute was assisted by Orlando Pride midfielder Ally Lemos and 90 seconds later Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor equalized beating the goalkeeper to the ball at the near post knocking the ball into the back of the net, her third goal of the tournament and 12th of her U-20 career. Sentnor and North Carolina Courage midfielder Riley Jackson went on to bury their penalty kicks. Seven NWSL players started the match for the United States.

Earlier in the day, Japan ended regulation tied 0-0 and headed to extra time against Spain that saw North Carolina Courage midfielder Manaka Matsukubo featured in the starting eleven and playing 115 minutes. Japan scored in the 102nd minute of play and held on for the victory sending them into the semifinals.

Round of 16 - Wednesday, September 11 / Thursday, September 12: The United States defeated familiar foe, Mexico by a 3-2 scorline with a late stoppage time goal to seal the victory. During the match, that featured seven NWSL players in the starting lineup, Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor notched her second goal of the tournament and third tally in her World Cup career. Seattle Reign FC forward Emeri Adames recorded the assist on the opening goal in the 10th minute of play, her fourth assist of the tournament. The win marked the second time Japan defeated Mexico in a knockout round of the U-20 Women's World Cup.

The following day, Japan defeated Nigeria 2-1 in a match that saw North Carolina Courage midfielder Manaka Matsukubo playing 76 minutes.

Match Day 3 - Saturday, September 7 / Sunday, September 8: The United States took down Paraguay with a 7-0 victory that saw two of the eight NWSL players on the roster notching a goal in the dominant win. Seattle Reign FC forward Emeri Adames recorded three assists in the victory while Thompson and Utah Royals FC midfielder Ally Sentnor each scored in the rout. Seven NWSL players started, and all eight players saw minutes during the match.

Elsewhere, Japan logged a 2-0 victory over Austria that saw Matsukubo in the starting 11.

In its final group stage match, New Zealand fell to Ghana by a 3-1 margin, with Clegg playing all 90 minutes.

Match Day 2 - Thursday, September 5: Bostlered by a goal from Matsukubo in first half stoppage time, Japan defeated Ghana 4-1 to secure their second win of the tournament.

New Zealand faced Austria losing 3-1 with Clegg recording a late goal in the 90th minute of action.

Match Day 2 - Wednesday, September 4: The U.S. Under-20 Women's Youth National Team secured all three points after defeating Morocco 2-0. Angel City FC defender Gisele Thompson recorded the assist on the opening goal of the match in the 48th minute. Orlando Pride midfielder Ally Lemos made her FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup debut after subbing into the match in the 62nd minute.

Match Day 2 - Tuesday, September 3: The Canadian Under-20 Women's National Team, that featured Allen in the starting lineup, defeated Fiji 9-0.

Match Day 1 - Saturday, August 31 / Sunday, September 1: The Under-20 Women's World Cup kicked off on Saturday in Colombia featuring 11 NWSL players across four national team rosters.

The U.S. Under-20 Women's Youth National Team fell to Spain 1-0 to open the tournament allowing a goalin the eighth minute of action. Seven of the eight NWSL players on the USYNT roster started against La Roja.

North Carolina Courage midfielder Manaka Matsukubo and the Under-20 Japan National Team reigned victorious against Racing Louisville FC striker Milly Clegg and the Under-20 New Zealand National Team, recording seven goals and the shutout. Clegg played all 90 minutes in the Football Ferns' loss.

Orlando Pride forward Amanda Allen, who is currently on loan with Lexington SC of the USL Super League, and the Canadian Under-20 National Team recorded a 3-3 draw with France, with Allen playing 63 minutes in the opening match.

About the Tournament: A record 11 NWSL players were named to various youth national team rosters ahead of the 2024 FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup taking place in Colombia from Saturday, August 31 through Sunday, September 22. Eight players were named to the U.S. Women's Youth National Team, while three players were named to an additional trio of national squads, including Canada, Japan and New Zealand.
