This weekend promises an exciting lineup of fixtures and with teams about to head into the Olympics break, chaos is all but guaranteed. Here’s what fans have to look forward to this weekend!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Matchup: Portland Thorns vs. San Diego Wave - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime Video

Outshooting and outpossessing the Red Stars last weekend yet falling scoreless to them 0-3, the San Diego Wave (3-6-6) will be looking for a bit of redemption Friday evening as Sophia Smith and the Portland Thorns (7-5-3) host Naomi Girma and the Wave. However, with the Thorns having earned just two points from their last three matches, this match will be a must win for any team hoping to head into the Olympic Break on a positive note.

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Houston Dash - 1:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ESPN/ESPN Deportes/ESPN+

The Chicago Red Stars’ (6-7-2) 3-0 victory in San Diego last weekend could very well fuel the squad for the rest of the season. At the very least, it’ll likely impact their home match this Saturday afternoon against the Houston Dash (3-7-5), who recently fell to a Temwa Chawinga-bolstered Kansas City. Remaining scoreless since May, the Dash will have a tall order as they try and change that against Red Stars and USWNT goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher.

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. Orlando Pride - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

It’s the matchup soccer fans across the world have been waiting for as Temwa Chawinga and Kansas City Current (10-0-5) host Barbra Banda and the Orlando Pride (10-0-5). The two forwards have emerged as some of the best goal scorers in the game, and have played a large part in their teams’ unbeaten streaks. But unfortunately, there can be only one winner (besides the fans who will get to witness this titanic matchup) and unless there’s a draw, someone’s unbeaten streak could very well be ending this Saturday. It’ll be the match of the weekend so don’t miss it!

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

Anyone who loves an East Coast versus West Coast rivalry will love this match as Angel City FC (4-8-3) hosts Gotham FC (8-3-4) for the second time this season. The last time these two faced off, the East Coast came out on top but since then, Gotham FC only has a single point from their last two matches. ACFC similarly has also had a dip in the standings recently. Both teams will be hungry for points before heading into a mid season break.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Washington Spirit - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

In another East Coast versus West Coast matchup, the Washington Spirit (10-4-1) are headed to the Bay Area to face expansion side Bay FC (6-9-0) for the second time this season. The two club’s first ever face off, during the Spirit’s home opener, was everything fans could have asked for — high quality goals and NWSL After Dark chaos. Bay FC’s squad has since had time to adjust to the newness of playing with one another, with head coach Albertin Montoya working hard on building chemistry and letting leaders naturally emerge. Spirit rookie Croix Bethune will be a player to watch, naturally, but also keep an eye on Bay rookie Savy King, who will be tasked with limiting Bethune’s runs into the box.

Matchup: North Carolina Courage vs. Racing Louisville FC - 4:30 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN

In spectacular fashion, Ashley Sanchez lifted North Carolina Courage (7-7-1) to victory last weekend in their away match against her old team, the Spirit. They’re playing host this Sunday to Bev Yanez and Racing Louisville (3-5-7), who fell to Bay FC last weekend by a single converted penalty kick. Racing’s defense is resilient and Katie Lund is a skilled shot stopper so they’ll surely make things difficult for the Courage.

Matchup: Seattle Reign FC vs. Utah Royals FC - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Ally Sentnor and the Utah Royals (2-11-2) are headed to Seattle to face Reign FC (2-9-4) for the first time this season. The mid-season Olympic breaks will be a great opportunity for both squads to reset and refresh, but before then, this match will serve as the chance to lay it all on the field and head into the break on a positive note. End your weekend with the NWSL and tune in!
