The 2026 rookie class came to play this season. Four match weeks are done and dusted and while San Diego’s Lia Godfrey has claimed the season’s first Rookie of the Month honors, she's not the only rookie who is showing out every single week.

From getting their clubs a game-winner to managing the midfield and protecting their backlines, here are five rookies setting the tone heading into Week 5, and ones you should definitely be keeping an eye on as they continue to grow into their professional careers.

Lia Godfrey (San Diego Wave FC) - Midfielder

Lia Godfrey has been ruthless in front of goal: four shots, all four on target, resulting in three goals. All three goals were game-winners. The March Rookie of the Month isn’t just clinical, she’s decisive, has an elite sense of timing, and is efficient in limited minutes (263).

And she’s not just a finisher. Godfrey is also tied among rookie leaders with nine chances created, proving she can just as easily set the table as she can clear it. That dual-threat presence has already put her among the league’s most dangerous young attackers and firmly in the Golden Boot conversation.

It’s no surprise she’s playing at this level, however. A standout for the University of Virginia, Godfrey earned First Team All-America honors four out of five years and in 2025, was named the ACC Midfielder of the Year and a MAC Hermann Trophy semifinalist. Regarded as one of the best collegiate midfielders while playing for the Cavaliers, she scored 28 goals and assisted 33 more in her 107 appearances.

Kat Rader (Houston Dash) - Forward

Kat Rader is doing a bit of everything and doing it well. Through four starts for Houston, she’s posted two goals and one assist, with both of her shots on target resulting in goals.

Rader is vital in her squad’s game plan as their main corner kick taker, leading all NWSL rookies with 13. She’s also tied with Godfrey at nine chances created, meaning she’s a primary attack generator for the Dash, who are fifth in the standings with three wins in four games.

It’s early in the season, but Rader’s playing her part in the Dash’s hot start, surpassing their 2025 performances. And that tracks. At Duke, the forward was a proven difference-maker, helping lead the Blue Devils to back-to-back College Cup appearances while tallying 32 goals and 20 assists. In her final season, she earned MAC Hermann trophy semifinalist honors and First Team All-America honors. She’s always found ways to influence winning, and her time with the Dash has been no different.

Devin Lynch (Denver Summit FC) - Midfielder

One rookie becoming synonymous with consistency is Denver Summit FC’s Devin Lynch. The Illinois product leads all rookies in minutes played (416) and is one of just five rookies to have started every match so far. Lynch has been hugely reliable for an expansion side finding its footing and that feat should be celebrated. That reliability is only sharpened by the company she keeps, learning alongside teammate Kaleigh Kurtz, who has played every possible regular-season minute since June 26, 2021. Kurtz is the master of consistency and Lynch is clearly taking notes.

Lynch has helped anchor a squad that has earned two clean sheets while adding defensive stats across the board (8 tackles, 5 clearances, 10 interceptions) and maintaining an impressive 78% passing accuracy. She’s been a steady presence from day one but that consistency isn’t new.

At Duke, where she played alongside fellow rookie Rader, Lynch built her reputation as one of the ACC’s most efficient contributors. Across her final two seasons, she totaled 13 goals and 17 assists, and as a senior, started 20 out of 22 matches. She even hit a stretch where she scored or assisted in seven out of eight games in a row and in her last year with the Blue Devils, scored three game-winners.

Mimi Van Zanten (San Diego Wave FC) - Defender

Mimi Van Zanten has started all five matches for San Diego and leads all rookies with 10 interceptions. Offensively, she’s just as reliable, completing 80% of her passes, the second-highest passing accuracy of all the rookies who have played more than 100 minutes behind Godfrey’s 86%.

That level of consistency is no surprise given her collegiate career. In three seasons with Florida State, Van Zanten won two NCAA Championships and two ACC Tournament titles and was vital in every season, making 48 starts in 57 appearances. In the 2025 NCAA tournament, she scored the opening goal versus Georgetown in the third round and played the full 90 in the Seminoles’ title-clinching win over Stanford. She’s carried that winning mentality into the pros, pairing her defensive instincts with an offensive edge. The Wave sit top of the table after Week 4 with four wins.

Leah Klenke (Houston Dash) - Defender

Houston's rookie class has been having quite the season, stepping up and elevating the Dash across the board. Last but not least is Leah Klenke, the only rookie with ironwoman minutes (360) so far. And not only is it evident Dash head coach Fabrice Gautrat has faith in the young defender by starting her and keeping her on the field, but her defensive workload proves she’s earned it in spades: 22 clearances lead all rookies by a wide margin. She’s doing the unglamorous work but she’s doing it relentlessly.

Klenke was a Swiss army knife for Notre Dame, deployed as a defender primarily but able to play up higher on the field and add to the attack due to her speed and long stride. Two-time First Team All-ACC and a 2025 MAC Hermann semifinalist, the only time she ever really missed games was her junior year when she was winning bronze with the U.S. U-20 team in the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup (she still won All-ACC honors that season).

Honorary Mentions:

Chicago’s Tessa Dellarose has already made her mark, scoring her first professional goal with her lone shot on target. A product of UNC’s famously competitive program, she’s adapting to the pros seamlessly and has logged the second-most minutes among all rookies, trailing only Lynch.

In Denver, Yuna McCormack continues to be a steady presence for the expansion side. The Florida State product has brought balance to the midfield with her defensive instincts while also contributing in the attack with an assist to Melissa Kössler.

And at Gotham, Jordynn Dudley is carrying her college form into the pros. The 2025 MAC Hermann finalist is tied with Rader and Van Zanten in shots among rookies, a reflection of her attacking fearlessness. After an 11-goal, 14-assist senior season, where she scored three game-winners, she’s proving she was ready for the pros.
