Midge Purce’s Instagram post summed her Friday night up perfectly.

“To everyone who said I was dramatic, you were right,” she wrote.

Turns out, she’s got a handle on the dramatics. On May 1, Purce made her Broadway debut in “Chicago,” giving the opening monologue before the performers took the stage at the Ambassador Theatre. The appearance was in part to promote Gotham’s Broadway themed night on May 16.

Armed with a black hat and fishnet stockings, Purce strutted onstage and delivered her lines with ease.

“Ladies and gentlemen, you're about to see a story of murder, greed, corruption, violence, exploitation, adultery, and treachery,” she said. “All the things we hold near and dear to our hearts. Thank you.”

With some teammates, friends, and fans in the crowd alongside theatergoers, Purce walked off stage to a hearty applause.

“Chicago” is the longest running musical on Broadway featuring iconic Fosse choreography, memorable songs, and all that jazz. It’s a mainstay on the Great White Way, and an early staple in the diet of any Broadway buff - Purce included.

The Athletic’s Asli Pelit tagged along for Purce’s big night on Broadway, and Purce said it was special to get an up close look at the day in the life of a professional performer.

“Honestly, being so intimately inside of another industry that’s like at the top, at its highest level, you don’t get to see the behind the scenes. It’s really cool to see people pursue their passions in ways that I pursue my own, but in a completely different industry,” Purce said.

Before heading out to introduce the crowd to the murderess row, Purce met with that night’s Roxie Hart and Velma Kelly - model and actress Ashley Graham and Sophie Carmen-Jones. As they chanted her name, she handed them their own custom Gotham jerseys, complete with their character names on the back.

Purce proved to be a natural, and because the first leg of her performance went so smoothly, she came back out in the second act during the trial of Roxie Hart, playing a journalist.

Though soccer and acting are two different skillsets, being a pro at one definitely helped with preparation. She took the role seriously, doing rehearsals on her own time and running lines. But when it comes to stage fright? Purce thrives under that kind of pressure.

“I am a game-time player for sure,” she told The Athletic. “I definitely show up for big games.”

After she took her final bow, Purce stepped off the stage, and by Sunday, she was back on the pitch. Naturally, that game was in Chicago.

No matter where she goes, one thing’s for sure. Purce will give it the old razzle dazzle.
