Upsets! Last-minute game-winners! Streaks broken! If last weekend taught us anything, it’s that chaos is always right around the corner in the NWSL. This week we have a lot to look forward to: must-win matches, record breaking potential, and so much more.

Let’s take a look at the Matchweek ahead.

Racing Louisville vs. Gotham FC - Friday, September 11 | 6:30 pm ET (NWSL+)

Kansas City Current vs. Orlando Pride - Friday, September 11 | 8 pm ET (Prime Video)

Angel City FC vs. Denver Summit - Friday, September 11 | 10 pm ET (ION)

San Diego Wave vs. North Carolina Courage - Saturday, September 12 | 6:30 pm ET (ION)

Seattle Reign vs. Bay FC - Saturday, September 12 | 8 pm ET (NWSL+)

Houston Dash vs. Utah Royals - Saturday, September 12 | 8:45 pm ET (ION)

Washington Spirit vs. Boston Legacy - Sunday, September 13 | 1 pm ET (ESPN, ESPN app)

Portland Thorns vs. Chicago Stars - Sunday, September 13 | 7 pm ET (Roku Channel)​

If Gotham loses to Louisville and Washington beats Boston, Washington will retake first place.

If Seattle loses against Bay and Angel City wins against Denver, Angel City will take the last playoff spot.

If San Diego and North Carolina draw and Utah loses to Houston, Portland could go as high as third place with a win.

Why it matters: Last week was NWSL chaos at its finest. The race for the Shield is once again wide open, with Washington narrowing the gap to only two points and North Carolina, Utah, and San Diego all tied in points right behind. The race for the last playoff spot is equally thrilling. After a 3-0 rout of reigning champions Gotham, Denver is back in playoff contention. They’re only four points away from catching current eighth placers Seattle. We’re racing toward a photo finish as the season goes on. Anything and everything can happen.

Last weekend Ashley Sanchez became the highest-scoring American in a single season with her hat trick against Chicago. She’s now up to 18 goals, topping Crystal Dunn in 2016 and Alex Morgan in 2022. Sanchez’s next record to topple is the single-season goalscoring record: 20, courtesy of Temwa Chawinga in 2024.

Every goal counts, especially against an opponent as tough as San Diego.

This week Angel City plays a must-win game against Denver at home. If Angel City wins and Seattle loses to Bay, Angel City will reclaim the last playoff spot. Meanwhile, Denver needs those three points to stay in the playoff race. Currently hovering at 10th place, they still have a shot to slip into eighth, but a W would go a long way to make that happen.

The Kansas City Current have not lost a regular season home match since July 6, 2024. That’s 28 straight regular-season home matches without a loss. This Matchweek they’re at home taking on the Orlando Pride in a Rivalry Match, presented by Ally.

The Current are hanging on to seventh place at the moment, having a comfortable 3 points on eighth placers Seattle. However, if Kansas City loses against Orlando (and break their home win streak), Seattle could potentially take seventh place with a win and bump the Current down to eighth. With Orlando, Denver, and Angel City knocking on the door, the Current have to keep their home win streak alive.​

After Portland's home undefeated streak fell last week, anything can happen.

Croix Bethune and Cloé Lacasse are currently tied for the single season assist record at 10 apiece. They share the record with Tobin Heath in 2016 and Bethune in 2024. Will this be the week that the record is smashed? Will Bethune outdo herself? Will Royal Lacasse sit upon the throne?

Tune in to find out.
