NEW YORK (October 2, 2022) -

The National Women’s Soccer League today named San Diego Wave FC forward Alex Morgan the recipient of the 2022 NWSL Golden Boot, finishing as the league’s top scorer in the regular season with 15 goals in 17 games. Earning her first top-scoring honor, Morgan’s 15 tallies were a career best since joining the league in 2013.

NEW YORK (October 2, 2022) - The National Women’s Soccer League today named San Diego Wave FC forward Alex Morgan the recipient of the 2022 NWSL Golden Boot, finishing as the league’s top scorer in the regular season with 15 goals in 17 games. Earning her first top-scoring honor, Morgan’s 15 tallies were a career best since joining the league in 2013.

Notably, one third of the forward’s goals were scored from the penalty spot. Two of her five PK goals came in a four-goal outing during Wave FC’s first home match of the regular season, a performance that made Morgan just the third player in NWSL history to score four times in a single contest. Morgan is currently tied for the league lead in penalty-kick goals and one tally short of the league record set in 2014. The forward's impressive scoring tear also included three braces, tied for second in the league in 2022. Additionally, the Diamond Bar, California native’s 11th goal of the season marked her 50th regular-season goal, making her the fifth player in league history to reach the milestone. The Golden Boot marks Morgan’s third end-of-season league honor after the forward was named to the Best XI Second Team in 2013 and 2017. With a brace in Portland Thorns FC’s regular season finale against NJ/NY Gotham FC on Saturday, forward Sophia Smith finished second in the Golden Boot race with 14 goals in 18 games, while North Carolina Courage striker Debinha tallied 12 goals in as many matches to round out the top three. Morgan and No. 3-seeded Wave FC look to become the first expansion franchise to win the NWSL Championship in their inaugural campaign when they face No. 6 seed Chicago Sunday, October 16 at Snapdragon Stadium. The match, set for a 10 p.m. ET kickoff, will air live on CBS Sports Network and internationally on the NWSL’s Twitch channel.
