When: Friday, April 18 - 10:00 pm ET

How to watch: Prime Video

READ: How to Watch the NWSL on Prime Video

Seattle versus Portland. The Reign versus the Thorns. It doesn’t get much more historic than this. The most-played rivalry in league history is back under the Friday night lights as Seattle Reign FC host the Portland Thorns FC at Lumen Field in the league's first Ally Rivalry match. Whether you’re a longtime Cascadia diehard or new to the NWSL, here are five reasons this matchup is unmissable:

No matchup in league history has been played more than Reign FC vs. Thorns FC. Friday marks their 42nd meeting across all competitions—just ahead of Spirit vs. Gotham. And it’s as close as rivalries get: Portland holds 16 wins, Seattle 15, with 10 draws between them.

After a slow start to the season, the Thorns are showing signs of their signature dominance. They enter Friday’s clash riding back-to-back shutouts, including a gritty 1-0 road win over Utah and a clean sheet vs. North Carolina, with standout moments from midfielder Hina Sugita and young up-and-comer Reilyn Turner. Despite being in the middle of the standings, Portland is always dangerous.

Lynn Biyendolo made her season debut for Seattle last weekend and could be a game-changer in this one. She’s scored 13 career goals against Portland across all competitions—the most by any player in league history against the Thorns. If she finds the field Friday night, there’s a good chance she’ll find the back of the net, too.

There’s a new generation stepping up in the Cascadia Rivalry. Seattle’s Jordyn Bugg and Portland’s Olivia Moultrie are the only two teenagers in the league who’ve played every minute so far this season. Bugg has emerged as a composed center back with an eye for goal, while Moultrie continues to grow as one of the most creative and technical midfielders in the league.

This matchup could mark some major milestones for a few of Seattle’s players. Lynn Biyendolo is just one assist away from tying the all-time NWSL assist record, currently held by Sofia Huerta (31). Meanwhile, Lauren Barnes is one win away from her 100th in the NWSL—and she would be the first player in league history to reach that milestone, and all entirely with the same club. Fittingly, Barnes is chasing that history in the league’s most storied rivalry. Across all competitions, Seattle holds 15 wins and Portland 16, with 10 draws between them. A win for the Reign would tie things up.

With iconic names, rising stars, and rivalry roots that run deep, this one’s got all the ingredients for a classic. Catch the Reign vs. the Thorns Friday at 10 PM ET on Prime Video.
