This week, U.S. Soccer unveiled its 2024 End of Year Award nominees, celebrating standout players across all National Teams who have made an impact for club and country. All five of the honorees for Best Female Player of the Year play in the NWSL and four out of five of the Best Young Female Player of the Year honorees play in the NWSL.

Fans can participate in the voting process, which closes Friday, Dec. 13, at 11:59 p.m. CT. The fan vote accounts for 15% of the overall tally, with the remaining votes cast by players, coaches, media, and other stakeholders.

Winners will be announced in January 2025. For more details and to cast your vote:

VOTE: <a href="https://survey.alchemer.com/s3/8097738/2024-U-S-Soccer-POTY-Fan-Vote" target="_blank">U.S. Soccer End of Year Awards</a>

The Female Player of the Year field is headlined by NWSL talents who played key roles in the USWNT’s historic return to the top of the podium at the 2024 Paris Olympics.

Naomi Girma (San Diego Wave FC): Girma continued to solidify her reputation as one of the best defenders in the world. After becoming the first defender to win this award in 2023, she anchored the U.S. back line, playing every minute of the Olympics and scoring her first two international goals. ESPN FC recently ranked her as the world’s second-best women’s player.

Alyssa Naeher (Chicago Red Stars): A rock in goal, Naeher delivered clutch performances throughout the Olympics, including three straight shutouts in the knockout rounds. Her clean sheet in the gold medal game against Brazil made her the only goalkeeper to achieve shutouts in both the World Cup and Olympic final.

Trinity Rodman (Washington Spirit): The forward added a dose of flair and firepower to the USWNT attack during their Olympic campaign, with her overtime strike against Japan in the quarterfinals one of the most memorable goals of the year, nominated for the inaugural FIFA Marta Award.

Sophia Smith (Portland Thorns FC): Smith led the USWNT in scoring with nine goals and four assists while also dominating for the Thorns during the 2024 season. Her semifinal game-winner against Germany at the Olympics was essential in Team USA’s quest for gold.

Mallory Swanson (Chicago Red Stars): Swanson topped the Olympic scoring charts for the U.S. with four goals and two assists, including the gold medal-clinching goal on her 100th cap.

The Young Female Player of the Year nominees highlight the next wave of U.S. talent who made a significant impact on youth national teams and the NWSL this year.

Kennedy Fuller (U-17, Angel City FC): Fuller shone for the U.S. at the Concacaf U-17 Championship and FIFA U-17 World Cup, where she won the Silver Boot and captained the team in several matches.

Claire Hutton (Kansas City Current): Playing up an age group at the U-20 World Cup, Hutton’s midfield performances stood out. She also had a breakout year in the NWSL, consistently starting for Kansas City.

Ally Sentnor (Utah Royals FC): The No. 1 overall NWSL draft pick wrapped up a stellar youth national team career at the U-20 World Cup, winning the Bronze Ball and earning her first senior USWNT call-up in November. She was also a finalist for NWSL Rookie of the Year.

Jordyn Bugg (U-20, Seattle Reign FC): The defender’s standout performances at the FIFA U-20 World Cup showcased her reliability and composure, even playing up an age group.
