Week two is almost upon us! After a kickoff weekend that saw plenty of big goals, big debuts, big home openers, and a big attendance record, the party continues this Friday with three big matchups including a Portland Thorns home opener versus their PNW rivals, Seattle Reign. Imagine missing all this fun!

How to Watch: Victory+

After starting off the season with losses, both the Pride and Summit will be hitting Week 2 with eyes set on that first win of the season. Barbra Banda missed a majority of the second half of last season due to injury, and she wasted no time getting back into the swing of things in the Pride home opener after being elevated from the SEI. Banda scored in her return, saying after the game that the goal reminded her how much she missed scoring. Between Banda, Marta, and Jacquie Ovalle, it’s a scary triple threat. Defenses around the league, you’ve been warned.

Meanwhile, the Summit start their inaugural season with back-to-back games on the road before their home opener next weekend. Denver’s Janine Sonis earned a red card in the inaugural match and won’t be available for the Summit, a huge damper on their offensive output considering she assisted their lone goal in San Jose. They have plenty of options, like Melissa Kössler and Olivia Thomas to name a few along with new additions Yazmeen Ryan and Delanie Sheehan (once they officially are ready to take the field).

How to Watch: Victory+

History says the odds are stacked against Louisville, who haven’t won against Washington in their last 11 meetings. Both teams lost in Week 1 and neither will want it to be two losses in a row to start the season.

For Racing, the key will be finding creative ways to score. The club made its first playoff appearance last season with a negative goal differential – meaning they let in more goals than they scored. With standout keeper Jordyn Bloomer holding down her end of the pitch, the offense needs to find ways to break through and provide that cushion if Racing wants to build on the momentum from last year. What better way to start than with a win against the team that eliminated them in the playoffs?

The Spirit are looking for their first goal of the season, and with a healthy Trinity Rodman and the one-two punch of Gift Monday and Rosemonde Kouassi on the front line, the potential is there for Washington to go on a tear. They just need to find their rhythm. Longtime starting keeper Aubrey Kingsbury is on maternity leave, and Sandy MacIver stepped into the starting role. While Racing would love to take advantage of a less veteran keeper, if any club knows what it’s like to have someone step into the starting role and shine, it’s Louisville.

How to Watch: Amazon Prime

It’s 2026’s first iteration of the Cascadia Clash as two longtime nemeses meet in the Pacific Northwest Friday night for the first Rivalry Match, presented by Ally, of the season. The Portland Thorns host the Seattle Reign and both teams are entering the weekend on a bit of a high after finding opening weekend victory against 2025 playoff foes in Week 1. The Thorns also have an added boost after the return of star forward and 2023 NWSL Golden Boot winner Sophia Wilson, who was out on maternity leave last season. Although Olivia Moultrie found the game-winner for them last weekend and is on the precipice of her 20th career goal, having another source of goals isn’t going to hurt. And of note, the Thorns are also down a starting goalkeeper with Mackenzie Arnold competing internationally with Australia in the Women’s Asian Cup. With Bella Bixby also out on SEI, Morgan Messer is their answer for now and so far, hasn't disappointed.

And on the other side of the field, Reign under the excellent leadership of midfielder Jess Fishlock started off 2026 strong, with Fishlock finding the back of the net and newcomer Brittany Ratcliffe the game-winner. Getting Mia Fishel into the mix is the next step for the team but the defense will have their hands full this weekend with the Portland crowd, a surging Moultrie, and Wilson on the hunt for her first goal back. This is the 44th time these two teams have played and with the record slightly leaning towards the home team, still don’t be surprised if some NWSL After Dark: Rivalries Edition jumps out at NWSL fans. We’re so back!

How to Watch: ION

It’s a symbiotic moment in women’s soccer history. The Houston Dash’s first win as a club came against the then Boston Breakers, and now, they host the Boston Legacy, who are hoping to leave H Town with their first win.

Houston started the season off with a strong win at San Diego. An outstanding performance from goalkeeper Jane Campbell was one of four clean sheets in the NWSL’s opening weekend. Makenzy Robbe’s goal in her club debut is promising for the Houston offense who will need to find creative ways to get on the board since losing Yazmeen Ryan to Denver in a trade earlier this week.

For Boston, discipline is much needed after the club’s inaugural match saw a total of nine cards between Legacy and Gotham, including a red card for Bianca St.-Georges who will miss this game. It’s the first test on the road for the new kids, but it’s a return for Nichelle Prince and Barb Olivieri, who both joined Boston from Houston. The Legacy are still looking for the first goal in club history, and both Prince and Olivieri have plenty of experience doing that in Houston.

How to Watch: ION

It’s a battle of the first champions (Courage) against the current champions (Gotham). Gotham will celebrate the culmination of a hard fought win last season, receiving their 2025 NWSL Championship rings – but they’ve got a game to play first. Esther González scored off the bench last week, but when it comes to long term success over the Courage, look no further than Midge Purce. She’s scored seven goals against the Courage in her career, her most against any opponent. After suffering an injury in the second game of the 2025 season, Tierna Davidson was activated to the Gotham roster. Though she didn’t see game minutes in Boston, the possibility of the captain returning to the pitch in front of a home crowd is what it’s all about.

The Courage hit the road for the first time this season fresh off a 2-1 win, led by Ashley Sanchez, who recorded her first career brace. North Carolina is still without star midfielder, Manaka Matsukubo, who is competing in the Women’s Asia Cup for her native Japan. With Kailen Sheridan holding down the backline for her new club and a defense led by Ryan Williams, the Courage showed they can effectively shut down opposing offenses and Gotham will prove to be a test.

How to Watch: ION

Last weekend, Angel City started the season hot with four unanswered goals, and Bay’s offseason moves have already proven their worth. It’s a California showdown that has never ended in a draw. Angel City’s electric opener was the start the club needed after the tough end to the 2025 campaign. Offseason signings like Ary Borge, who earned a goal and assist in her club debut, are paying dividends already. Now, they need to make sure that momentum can stick. Of course, Savy King’s return was an emotional high point of Week 1, but the clean tackle on Chicago’s Maitane shows just how much she was missed on the Angel City defense, and that defense will be put to the test against Bay’s reliable attack of Racheal Kundananji and Taylor Huff. Add newcomers and besties Alex Pfeiffer and Claire Hutton into the mix, and new captain Sydney Collins (who recently scored her first international goal for Canada), and Bay’s offense will be one to watch. Keeper Jordan Silkowitz is looking to build on her breakout 2025 campaign, holding down Bay’s back line.

Chicago Stars vs. Kansas City Current – 2 p.m. ET | ESPN2, ESPN

How to Watch: ESPN, ESPN2

Kansas City looked a little shaky last weekend, letting in a first half goal from Utah and heading into the locker room at the break on the backfoot. But they came out of the locker room gunning for not just an equalizer but victory, and they delivered. It might seem like the Kansas City of 2025 is back – despite missing a few key pieces such as 2025 NWSL MVP and Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga and their captain, Lo’eau LaBonta – but it’s still too soon to say. Regardless, with some strong additions in the offseason – Croix Bethune and Penelope Hocking, for instance – they have the staying power to launch an offense from start to finish.

On the other end of things, Chicago heads home after a 0-4 loss in Los Angeles. It was the most goals in a single game all weekend and letting in that many unanswered can be a bit of a buzzkill but there’s plenty of storylines to be excited for ahead of a difficult matchup. Exciting rookies, new firepower like Jordyn Huitema to link up with fellow Canadian Julia Grosso, and Alyssa Naeher just minutes away from being the second NWSL goalkeeper to play 15,000 minutes for a single club. Tune

How to Watch: Victory+

Utah returns this weekend to Sandy for its home opener against the Wave, searching for a win after a close loss last weekend in Kansas City where they scored their first-ever goal against the Current. A few key players are still absent, with Mina Tanaka and their new incoming Japanese players away on international duty and Mandy McGlynn sidelined with injury. Cloé Lacasse and Paige Monaghan will have to carry the load and goalkeeper Mia Justus will have to continue to step up to keep the net clear.

Meanwhile, San Diego are on the road after a tough defeat in front of their home crowd last weekend that saw them held scoreless. Kenza Dali remains a key center piece of this attack but the team has a few new pieces since they faced Utah last including the backflipping Ludmila and her Brazil teammate Gabi Portilho. The two of them combined with other Brazilian teammate Dudinha serves for a deadly, hard to defend attack.
