This week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced its 2024 regular season schedule, beginning on March 16, as the Kansas City Current host Portland Thorns FC in the first game at CPKC Stadium. 121 matches will be broadcast nationally across four partner platforms, while the rest will be available onNWSL+ , the league’s first-ever direct-to-consumer platform.

This week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced its 2024 regular season schedule, beginning on March 16, as the Kansas City Current host Portland Thorns FC in the first game at CPKC Stadium. 121 matches will be broadcast nationally across four partner platforms, while the rest will be available on NWSL+, the league’s first-ever direct-to-consumer platform.Below is a collection of memorable matchups to watch for in 2024. A complete schedule can be found here or on NWSLSoccer.com.

Saturday, March 16 – Historic Regular Season Opener

Kansas City Current vs. Portland Thorns FC | CPKC Stadium (Kansas City, MO) | 1 p.m. ET | ABC

The 2024 NWSL regular season opener will mark a historic moment, as the Kansas City Current host the inaugural game at CPKC Stadium, the first purpose-built stadium for a women’s professional sports team. The opening matchup also features two of the game’s biggest global stars as Kansas City Current midfielder Debinha and Portland Thorns FC’s reigning NWSL Golden Boot winner Sophia Smith, both 2023 Ballon d'Or Féminin nominees, face off for the first time since Week 2 in 2023.

Saturday, March 16 – Expansion Sides Highlight First Saturday ION Double-Header

Utah Royals FC vs. Chicago Red Stars | America First Field (Sandy, UT) | 7:30 p.m. ET | ION

Angel City FC vs. Bay FC | BMO Stadium (Los Angeles, CA) | 10 p.m. ET | ION

Kicking off the NWSL’s new Saturday double-headers on ION, the league’s newest expansion clubs will both see game action on March 16. Utah Royals FC returns to the NWSL for the first time since 2020, hosting the Chicago Red Stars at America First Field in Sandy, Utah. The Royals’ season opener also marks the debut of forward Ally Sentnor, the top overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft. Kickoff is slated for 7:30 p.m. ET, marking the first of two matches to stream on ION on Saturday. The second half of the double-header sees Bay FC’s NWSL debut against Southern California rival Angel City FC at BMO Stadium in Los Angeles at 10 p.m. ET. This battle will be a homecoming for Bay FC forward Scarlett Camberos who played for Angel City in 2023, while this year’s No. 2 overall pick Savy King is among rookies expected to debut for the visitors.

Saturday, May 11 – Cascadia Rivalry

Portland Thorns FC vs. Seattle Reign FC | Providence Park (Portland, OR) | 10 p.m. ET | ION

The first clash of the season between long-time rivals Portland Thorns FC and Seattle Reign FC is set for Saturday, May 11 at 10 p.m. ET in Portland. The Pacific Northwest foes faced off four times in 2023, twice in the regular season and twice in the Challenge Cup. Portland won 2-0 in both regular season matchups, with midfielder Hina Sugita and forward Morgan Weaver each recording assists in the first game and goals in the second. Seattle won the first of two Challenge Cup matches between the clubs with a 1-0 victory behind a 54th minute goal from forward Elyse Bennett, now a member of San Diego Wave FC’s roster. A scoreless draw in the final Group Stage secured Seattle Reign’s spot as the top seed in the Challenge Cup.

Thursday, May 23 – SoCal Showdown

Angel City FC vs. San Diego Wave FC | BMO Stadium (Los Angeles, CA) | 10 p.m. ET | CBS Sports Network

The NWSL’s 2022 expansion clubs both reached new heights last year, as Angel City FC reached the playoffs for the first time in club history and San Diego Wave FC won its first NWSL Shield. The budding rivalry sees its first rematch of 2024 on May 23, as Angel City hosts the Wave at BMO Stadium at 10 p.m. ET, airing on CBS Sports Network. This showdown will see familiar faces take the pitch on opposite sides, as former Angel City midfielder Savannah McCaskill signed with the Wave this offseason and former San Diego midfielder Meggie Dougherty-Howard was recently traded to Angel City.

Sunday, June 30 – 2023 NWSL Championship Rematch

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Seattle Reign FC | Red Bull Arena (Harrison, NJ) | 1 p.m. ET | ESPN2

A heavily anticipated rematch between 2023 NWSL Champions NJ/NY Gotham FC and Seattle Reign FC will take place at Red Bull Arena at 1 p.m. on June 30, airing on ESPN2. This matchup looks quite different from the 2023 NWSL Championship, as both clubs have retooled their rosters and Seattle has rebranded from the OL Reign name used from 2020 to 2023. NWSL originals and long-time US national team teammates Ali Krieger and Megan Rapinoe retired this offseason, with both clubs losing a key veteran presence. Gotham FC made several splashes in free agency, including former Reign midfielders Rose Lavelle and Emily Sonnett. Joined by fellow USWNT teammates Tierna Davidson and Crystal Dunn, the new-look Gotham FC take on a Seattle Reign club anchored by veterans Jess Fishlock and Lauren Barnes.
