Week 6 officially kicked off on Tuesday night, when the Thorns lit up Providence Park in a 4-1 win over Gotham FC, but the fun doesn’t end there. With a full slate of matches this weekend, including a 2024 semifinal rematch between the Washington Spirit and Gotham FC—the second Rivalries presented by Ally match of the season—expect rivalries and redemption arcs this weekend with a dash of classic NWSL After Dark chaos.

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: NWSL+

Week 6 continues in Houston with the Houston Dash returning home after a tough Week 5 loss in Kansas City. They’ll be counting on their veteran goalkeeper captain, Jane Campbell, to lead the way, as she sits on the cusp of her 40th career shutout. Utah, meanwhile, is on the road after winning last weekend in front of their home fans and with a new addition to their frontline, forward Cece Kizer, who’s chasing her 20th career goal. Ally Sentnor remains the creative heartbeat of this young squad, tied for the fourth-most goals in club history after converting her penalty last weekend, the second latest game-winning goal in NWSL history. Any opportunity to get her involved in the attack, Utah will need to take if they want to leave Texas with another 3 points.

How to watch: Prime Video

Better bust out that second screen because there’s a second NWSL game on Friday night and it’s a can’t miss coast-to-coast match between two teams ready to make Week 6 theirs. Orlando saw their unbeaten home streak snapped last weekend, but Barbra Banda and the Pride will surely be looking to change that this weekend. Veteran icon Marta is nearing several all-time league records—including the PK conversion record and entering the 40 goals and 20 assists club. Angel City, energized by its youth, didn’t see Alyssa Thompson take the field last weekend but if she features Friday night, her and rookie standout Riley Tiernan will surely be the difference makers.

How to watch: CBS & Paramount+

NWSL After Brunch meets Rivalries presented by Ally. Saturday afternoon features a semifinal rematch from last fall, and both squads look ruthless this season. Washington comes in red-hot after a win against league titans, the Orlando Pride, thanks to a first NWSL goal from Gift Monday. With a stingy defense, anchored by Aubrey Kingsbury—who is also nearing her 40th career shutout—Gotham FC is going to need to channel their Week 5 goal scoring superpowers to surpass the Spirit. Esther González has scored five goals in her last three games—matching Sam Kerr’s club record for most multi-goal games—and Midge Purce is one strike away from second in club history. With Emily Sonnett directing traffic and Geyse now integrated into the front line, Gotham will surely be up to the task.

How to watch: NWSL+

This Saturday, the undefeated No. 1 Kansas City Current will roll into Cary looking to extend their historic start to the season, currently at 5-0-0 with a league-record nine straight regular season victories reaching back to 2024. Saturday could also see them set a new consecutive multigoal games record, with their streak currently at seven. With Temwa Chawinga’s innate ability to find the goal and Lo’eau LaBonta’s steady leadership in midfield, KC has looked unstoppable. But the Courage, led by Denise O’Sullivan and rising talent Jaedyn Shaw, have home field advantage and plenty of motivation to win. NC will need a complete performance to slow down the league leaders.

How to watch: ION

The Chicago Stars are still searching for consistency as they host a confident San Diego side that’s finding its rhythm. The Wave snapped a three-match winless streak last week with help from their French connection. Delphine Cascarino starred in a dominant brace and assist performance with Kenza Dali and Perle Morroni also playing vital support with their goal and assist respectively. Chicago will look to bounce back behind veteran presence in goal from Alyssa Naeher, who is on the verge of reaching 50 regular season shut outs, which has only ever been reached by one other goalkeeper in league history (Nicole Barnhart). With the Wave heating up and the Stars eager to defend home turf, this will be a tightly contested clash.

How to watch: ION

Saturday night closes out with a West Coast showdown as league sophomores Bay FC host the Seattle Reign. Bay has already proven they can steal points, powered by gritty performances from rookie Taylor Huff, who is the only rookie in the NWSL to have played every minute of the season so far, and captain defender Abby Dahlkemper’s leadership on the backline. Seattle arrives fresh off a Cascadia rivalry win and a clean sheet, buoyed by their own rookie-on-the-rise, Maddie Dahlien, and an assist record milestone from Lynn Biyendolo, who is on the precipice of setting a new one. With two tough midfields and plenty of young firepower, expect late-night drama in San Jose.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

Sunday’s lone fixture sees Portland back at Providence Park looking to build on their emphatic midweek win over Gotham FC, where four different Thorns netted their first goals for the club. The home side will aim to ride that momentum as Deyna Castellanos and Olivia Moultrie continue to find form, with rookies Caiya Hanks and Jayden Perry equally as deadly. Racing Louisville enters the match searching for a much-needed win and will need to find a way to get their attackers who aren’t named Emma Sears on the scoresheet. If they can do that, they’ll be able to go toe-to-toe with the Thorns, with the difference maker potentially being the Portland home crowd and the loud and passionate atmosphere they love to create.
