Last week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Awards featuring the Most Valuable Player, presented by Bud Light. The 2023 NWSL Awards are voted upon in two rounds with fans having the opportunity to participate in the final round of the voting process.

Last week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Awards featuring the Most Valuable Player, presented by Bud Light. The 2023 NWSL Awards are voted upon in two rounds with fans having the opportunity to participate in the final round of the voting process.In the preliminary round of voting, players, owners, general managers, coaches and the media voted on individual awards to determine the finalists. The preliminary round used a weighted scale, broken down by players (50%), owners/GMs/coaches (25%) and media (25%). The final round of voting uses a weighted scale of players (40%), owners/GMs/coaches (25%), media (25%) and fans (10%). Below is a recap of notable statistics and performances from the Most Valuable Player finalists during the 2023 NWSL regular season. For a full list of award finalists, including Defender of the Year, Goalkeeper of the Year, Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally, and Coach of the Year, click here.

Sam Coffey – M, Portland Thorns FC

Coffey led the league with eight assists this season, the highest single season total since Chicago Red Stars forward Yuki Nagasato in 2019 (8). The 24-year-old midfielder appeared in all 22 games for the Portland Thorns, playing the full time in all but one match, and earned three monthly Best XI honors. Coffey was the only player to record multiple two-assist games this season. The 24-year-old midfielder was also a defensive anchor for the Thorns, finishing top five in the league in possessions won (187) and tackles won (44) and was tied for 10th in interceptions (32).

Debinha – M, Kansas City Current

Debinha tallied nine goals in her first season in Kansas City, scoring in three consecutive matches on two separate occasions and in back-to-back matches before a break to play in the Women’s World Cup. Notably, the Brazilian midfielder recorded an impressive brace in a 2-0 win over NJ/NY Gotham FC in Week 5, notching two goals in four minutes in the second half. With her fifth goal of the season in Week 12, the Ballon d’Or Féminin nominee became the 12th player in league history to score 40 career goals in the regular season. Debinha earned three monthly Best XI selections in 2023.

Naomi Girma – D, San Diego Wave FC

The reigning NWSL Defender of the Year and NWSL Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally, finished the season second on her club in possessions won (152) and blocks (15). While earning three Best XI selections, the San Jose native led the Wave to its first NWSL Shield, earning the No. 1 seed and a first-round bye in the playoffs. Girma ranked fifth in the league with 948 successful passes in 2023, completing 88.7 percent of her 1069 passes. For the second straight year, San Diego Wave FC defender Naomi Girma is both a finalist for Most Valuable Player and Defender of the Year.

Kerolin – F, North Carolina Courage

In her second NWSL season, North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin took the league by storm, recording 10 goals in 19 matches, including netting her first NWSL hat trick in a Week 11 win over the Chicago Red Stars. The 23-year-old forward was a key factor in keeping playoff hopes alive for the Courage, recording a goal and two assists in a 3-3 match against NJ/NY Gotham FC in Week 18. Kerolin also notched the equalizing goal in a draw against OL Reign in Week 20. The Brazilian national recorded three assists for the Courage, tied for the most on the club this season. Kerolin, the Golden Boot runner up, earned two Best XI selections in 2023.

Sophia Smith – F, Portland Thorns FC

Despite missing five games due to the Women’s World Cup and injury, Portland Thorns FC forward Sophia Smith claimed the first Golden Boot in club history with 11 goals in 17 matches, including four game winners. Notably, Smith became just the third player in league history to record two hat tricks in the same season, notching her second of the season during a five-game scoring streak. The 23-year-old reigning league MVP became the youngest player to reach the milestone of 30 career goals in the NWSL and the second youngest Golden Boot winner. Smith also recorded five assists, tied for second in the league, including two in a 2-0 win over Racing Louisville FC in Week 4. She earned her two selections to the NWSL’s Best XI in 2023, also earning NWSL Player of the Month, presented by EA Sports, in March/April and June. Award winners will be announced in the days surrounding the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, which is set to kick off Saturday, November 11 at 8 p.m. ET at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California. The contest will air live on the CBS Television Network and stream on Paramount+ and internationally on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.

In addition to the awards listed above, the winner of the third annual Nationwide Community Impact Award will be announced and honored at halftime of the Championship match. For more details on the Nationwide Community Impact Award, please click here. The league will also announce the Championship MVP, presented by Bud Light, during the on-field post-match presentation.

Tickets for the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, are available here.
