Semifinal Storylines

RIVALS

The Washington Spirit and Gotham FC faced off in the NWSL semifinals on Saturday, marking their 40th all-time meeting.

ESTHER

Esther scored for Gotham FC in the 56th minute, redirecting a cross from Yazmeen Ryan with her head. The goal marked her 10th of the season across regular and postseason, the most of any Gotham FC player in 2024 and her 2nd career playoff goal.

HAL HERSHFELT

Hal Hershfelt scored the equalizer for the Spirit in the 93rd minute, the latest regulation-time equalizer in NWSL playoff history. She was assisted by fellow Clemson alumna Makenna Morris.

AUBREY KINGSBURY

The Washington Spirit goalkeeper made three consecutive penalty saves in the penalty shootout to decide the victor, the first goalkeeper in NWSL history to do so in all competitions. It was the second penalty shootout in NWSL playoff history.

WASHINGTON SPIRIT

The Washington Spirit have now advanced to their second NWSL Championship in four seasons and their third in club history (2016, 2021, 2024).

ORLANDO PRIDE

The Orlando Pride won their semifinal match against the Kansas City Current to advance to their first-ever NWSL Championship. It’s only the second time in NWSL history that the NWSL Shield Winner has advanced to the NWSL Championship (North Carolina Courage, 2019). They are undefeated at home since August 25, 2023.

PRIDE GOALS

Haley McCutcheon scored the equalizer for the Pride, her second playoff goal with Ally Watt providing her third assist of the postseason. Barbra Banda netted her third playoff goal, becoming the fifth player in NWSL history to score three in a single postseason. Marta sealed the win with her record-breaking game-winner, becoming the oldest player to score in the playoffs.

MARTA

Marta scored the game-winning goal for the Pride with an impressive individual effort, collecting the ball in midfield, navigating past KC Current defenders and the goalkeeper, and finishing with precision. She remains the only player on Orlando's 2024 roster who was part of the team's previous NWSL playoff appearance in 2017.

DESIREE SCOTT

Kansas City Current defender Desiree Scott has officially retired from professional soccer, concluding her illustrious career at the end of the 2024 season. A cornerstone for Canada with 187 international caps, Scott earned an Olympic gold medal and two NWSL Championship titles with the now-defunct FC Kansas City.

NWSL CHAMPIONSHIP

The Orlando Pride and Washington Spirit are set to clash in the 2024 NWSL Championship on Saturday, November 23, at 8:00 PM ET in Kansas City. This marks the first-ever playoff meeting between the two clubs and the championship debut for both head coaches. Neither team qualified for the postseason in 2023.
