Content warning: This article contains mentions of eating disorders.

Denver Summit center back Kaleigh Kurtz is the consummate NWSL Ironwoman. Her streak through Matchweek 10 stands at 11,212 consecutive minutes, a whopping 125 consecutive games. She’s played every match since June 26, 2021.

If anyone is touching Kurtz’s record, it will take some time. She’s already made league history; at this point Kurtz is just competing with herself.

The physical toll of competing in 90 minutes of soccer every week for more than four consecutive seasons is significant, but the mental journey is where the real work Kurtz has done shows most clearly.

The fact of the matter is that her streak will one day come to an end. Whether she doesn’t make the starting lineup – something that’s nearly happened – for one reason or another, needs a sub midmatch, or it’s when she hangs up her boots for good, that is an undeniable truth.

Kurtz knows that and has made peace with it. She’s had no other choice.

Take last season for example. It was Kurtz’s final year with the North Carolina Courage, the club where she’d spent her career. She noticed she wasn’t training with the starting lineup. It stayed that way all week.

“When I got home from training on Thursday, I called my dad. I talked to my fiancé,” she said. “It truly was the sentiment of, ‘If this streak goes away, am I going to be okay?’”

The short answer is: yes. The longer answer is more interesting.

As a self-described perfectionist, Kurtz has navigated an eating disorder, the loss of her U.S. Women’s National Team dream, and the potential of losing that career-defining streak. What once felt life or death situations no longer carry the same weight.

It was around 2021 that Kurtz heard a phrase that changed her life: “If it’s not life-threatening, it’s ego-threatening.” Now 31, Kurtz served as co-captain for the Denver Summit’s inaugural season before the arrival of Lindsey Heaps and brought the lessons from her experience and ego deaths – both big and small – with her, leading by example for her younger teammates.

“They have no idea that I sat at the bench for my first three years in the league,” Kurtz said. “They've only known me as ‘The Ironwoman.’”

In 2019, two years before the Ironwoman streak began, Kurtz considered retiring. Her relationship with North Carolina Coach Paul Riley, who would be fired in 2021 for allegations of abuse, had taken a turn for the worse.

Riley pulled Kurtz aside, telling her she looked “undynamic and chubby.” She went home and didn’t eat for the entirety of the weekend, and when it came time for training the next week, which included a timed mile, she had no energy.

“That was the worst time I’d ever gotten, and then that became ammo of why he shouldn’t play me,” Kurtz said. “Things got really hard, and I could feel myself start to spiral with food specifically. It became something that I would always think about.”

As she obsessed over her weight and everything she ate, Kurtz’s self-criticism informed how she saw others.

It wasn’t the first time Kurtz retreated into isolation. At the University of South Carolina, when Kurtz wasn’t getting playing time, she turned into a version of herself she didn’t like.

“I was coming on so strongly with really negative feelings and being very vocal about them,” Kurtz said. “If everyone doesn’t want to be around me, it’s me. I’m the problem.”

Phone calls with her dad, Andrew, always helped – and still do – get Kurtz back in line with her moral compass. Just like in college, she talked to her dad as she fought back against self-isolation.

Finding community outside of soccer through her blossoming relationship with her now-fiancé helped.

“It was amazing having a community outside of soccer so that when I do get to escape soccer, it's a full escape,” Kurtz said. “They ask me a couple questions and then we immediately move on from it. That’s better for my mental health.”

Two years later, Kurtz said she felt the first glimmers of falling back in love with soccer. Former teammate Casey Murphy, now the starting keeper for the Boston Legacy, had seen that Kurtz was struggling.

Murphy encouraged Kurtz to join in her daily practice of journaling with an emphasis on one or two tangible things they wanted to accomplish at training.

“She took me out of this crazy perspective and brought me into a narrow viewpoint that allowed me to let go of some of the clouded feelings and memories I was having,” Kurtz said.

Slowly, the stakes started to feel less imposing. No matter what happened on the pitch, the sun still rose. She still woke up the next morning with the love of her family, friends, and teammates.

The pitch became a solace again.

“Whenever I step inside the white lines, I think, ‘this is the beauty of sport’. You get so focused on the present moment,” Kurtz said. “That's what makes sports so special is typically, no matter what’s going on in your life, you can put that aside for an hour.”

Despite this turn, it wouldn’t be until 2023 that Kurtz addressed her eating disorder head on. At training with the Courage, Kurtz watched teammate Denise O’Sullivan run around looking energized and fresh. Her secret, Kurtz would learn, was a nutritionist.

Kurtz got his number and laid everything on the table – every shame-related thought she had around food, her worst habits, the words of her inner critic. To her surprise, he didn’t flinch.

“When I started fueling myself properly, I was like, ‘Oh my God. I can go forever.’”

But going forever is no longer the point. The Ironwoman streak may be the headline, but it is not the definition.

Towards the end of the 2025 season when Kurtz realized she was likely starting the bench, instead of withdrawing, she kept her head down and kept working.

“I realized just how big my ego was. Three games away from my fourth Iron Woman, and it's going to end here,” Kurtz said. “I'm not getting hit by a car. A tiger is not chasing me. This is all just me and my ego. The sun's gonna come up tomorrow. The press will be out. It'll be done, and I'm going to be okay.”

But when Friday morning rolled around, Kurtz was back in the lineup, and her coach pulled her aside. The way she handled being removed from the lineup, letting that part of her ego die yet another death, is ultimately what kept her streak alive.

“I tried to stay in my lane, focus on myself, and help the players around me because that’s the role of the center back,” Kurtz said. “You have to learn to be a good teammate. When your time does happen, play it to the best of your capabilities. If it's 10 minutes, give everything you got for 10 minutes.”

In her role as a veteran in an expansion team locker room, letting go of that control is the best example she can set, and she’s found herself being tested again and again.

Kurtz recalled talking with a young teammate about her upcoming first start, telling her the worst possible soccer outcome was that she turned the ball over and the opponent scored. Conceding a goal is never the intended outcome, but you have to be able to let it go and move forward.

That very game, Kurtz was stripped of the ball. The opponent scored, and her team lost.

“Mistakes are going to happen. It’s ‘how can I recover from my mistake’ that’s been the change,” Kurtz said. “It’s specifically allowed for the room to grow the self-love and self-worth outside of soccer.”

As Kurtz extends her own Ironwoman streak, the mental fortitude it takes to play every game is the same one that has become her superpower: taking it one step at a time.

“The beauty of sport is being in the present moment. If you’re constantly thinking about that one mistake, it’s going to be really hard to make the next play,” Kurtz said.

There will always be a next play. The game will keep going, and Kaleigh Kurtz will likely be there on the pitch. One day, she won’t be, but when that day comes, KK is going to be just fine.
