Orlando Pride 1-0 Chicago Stars

Houston Dash 1-0 Bay FC

Portland Thorns 2-2 Gotham FC

Boston Legacy 1-0 Kansas City Current

North Carolina Courage 1-4 Utah Royals

San Diego Wave 0-2 Seattle Reign

Washington Spirit 1-0 Denver Summit

Angel City FC 1-2 Racing Louisville

Sam Kerr scored her first goal for Gotham, her 78th NWSL goal. It’s been six years and 306 days since Kerr scored her 77th with the then-Chicago Red Stars.

Seattle Reign Coach Laura Harvey earned her 100th win with the club.

Washington Spirit Coach Adrián González became the fastest head coach in league history to 25 regular season wins in just 46 games.

Trinity Rodman earned her fifth assist of the season for the Spirit. She’s the first player in league history to have 10 game-winning assists for one team.

Portland’s Morgan Weaver returned to the pitch for the Thorns for the first time in 622 days.

Angel City’s three-game winning streak came to an end, and Racing earned their first win since May, rookie Maja Lardner opened her account and promptly doubled it for a brace.​

Sometimes the moments are so good, you have to watch ‘em again.

Portland Thorns rookie Renee Lyles opened her NWSL account with this gorgeous shot to get her club on the board against Gotham.

Washington’s Sofia Cantore scored the game-winning goal with a \gestures in Italian\ stunner from distance. Trinity Rodman earned the assist as the pair combined for their fourth goal of the season.

Chicago keeper Katie Atkinson blocked a Marta PK attempt, just the second time in her NWSL career the Brazilian legend failed to convert a PK. Atkinson kept the Stars in it until the 88th minute, when Julie Doyle finally broke through for the Pride. Orlando's 20 first-half shots are the second-most in league history.

Angel City’s Sophia Mattice served up a coast-to-coast assist for Sveindís Jónsdóttir’s sixth of the season.

You’re not gonna believe it, but it happened again: a soccer star traveled with a taxidermy animal. This time, instead of Norway and Manchester City star Erling Haaland, it was Croix Bethune with a racoon holding a canoe. What a sentence.

It garnered the attention of TSA, who commented: “At this point we’re going to have to add taxidermy raccoons to the website.”

Unfortunately, the canoe raccoon did not bring the same luck to the Kansas City Current as other inanimate animals around the league, losing 1-0 to the Boston Legacy on the road.

Houston won their first match at home since May, and as has been the case all season long, it’s the bevvy of young talent that have driven the Dash. Rookie Linda Ullmark scored her second goal, the game-winner in second-half stoppage time, to secure three points against Bay. Across the NWSL, there have been 20 rookie goals. Houston rookies Ullmark, Kat Rader, and Kate Faasse have scored 10 – half the league total.

The Utah Royals are finding their stride again, scoring four goals for the first time in club history to win their second match in a row. The Royals beat the Courage 4-1. Defenders Kate Del Fava and Tatumn Milazzo both scored thanks to assists from Nuria Rábano. Cloe Lacasse scored her sixth of the year and set Mina Tanaka up for a beautiful header, her fifth goal of the season.

After a tough loss last week against Gotham that saw the Reign concede three goals after the 80th minute to lose 3-2, Seattle bounced back with a statement win against the San Diego Wave. Maddie Mercado continued her scoring streak to three-straight matches and Jordyn Bugg scored her first. Ainsley McCammon earned the assists on both, making her the youngest player in league history with a multi-assist game at just 18 years and 344 days. The record was previously held by Trinity Rodman (19 years, 143 days). ​

Sad that NWSL action for the week is over? Great news – it’s not! There are three matches Wednesday night to hold you over to the weekend.

Kansas City Current vs. Racing Louisville

Utah Royals vs. Washington Spirit

Bay FC vs. Gotham FC
