LOS ANGELES // NEW YORK (April 24, 2026) – The fastest-growing and most engaging women’s sports media company TOGETHXR has teamed up with the National Women’s Soccer League to launch the first-ever league-wide Everyone Watches Women’s Sports™ capsule collection. Developed to celebrate the NWSL and every club, the collaboration is anchored by TOGETHXR’s iconic Everyone Watches Women’s Sports™ t-shirts in the primary colorways of all 16 NWSL clubs, along with a special NWSL-branded edition.

The league-wide collection will launch May 7 on NWSL and TOGETHXR platforms. Fans can follow their favorite clubs, the NWSL and TOGETHXR for updates on club-specific releases. Gear will be available on team websites, NWSLShop.com and TOGETHXR.com, and in person at most home games. Additional club-specific items and new products—including sweatshirts, long-sleeve t-shirts and hats—will roll out on club platforms throughout this season.

“In partnership with TOGETHXR, we’ve created a unified offering that celebrates the brand identities of every NWSL club while delivering products that fans are proud to wear,” said NWSL Vice President of Consumer Products Katie Eaton. “The collection brings to life a defining message that women’s sports fans have long rallied behind, while giving each club the opportunity to make it their own by infusing the line with their colors and identity.”

“TOGETHXR is thrilled to join forces with the NWSL to provide fans of a top-tier women’s sports league with a comprehensive product line that is individually tailored for each of its clubs,” said Sarah Bergstrom, TOGETHXR Head of Operations. “This first-time merchandise program has a selection of meaningful product offerings that speak directly to each club’s supporters with accessibility to purchase both online and in-person.”

For more information and to view the full collection visit NWSLShop.com and TOGETHXR.com.

About TOGETHXR

TOGETHXR is the fastest growing, most popular, and most engaging women's sports brand. The trailblazing media and commerce company has generated more than eight figures in revenue from its trademarked slogan and product line that boldly state an undeniable truth: "Everyone Watches Women's Sports." Co-founded by sports media veteran Jessica Robertson alongside four of the world's greatest professional athletes: Alex Morgan, Chloe Kim, Simone Manuel, and Sue Bird, TOGETHXR focuses on rich storytelling rooted in lifestyle and youth culture. TOGETHXR highlights a diverse and inclusive community of game-changers, culture shapers, thought leaders, and barrier breakers – finding and sharing the stories of women doing the same. As one of the most compelling platforms for women in sports and culture, TOGETHXR's in-house production studio has developed a slate of premium scripted and unscripted content, streaming on platforms such as Amazon Prime and FuboTV among others.

About the NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the world’s premier women’s professional soccer league, featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Columbus NWSL, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, NWSL Atlanta, NWSL Columbus, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

Press Contacts:

press@togethxr.com

jlevine@nwslsoccer.com

mschachte@nwslsoccer.com
