Nicole Barnhart – or as she is lovingly called by all, Barnie – is a woman of many talents. She is a legendary former goalkeeper turned Spirit assistant goalkeeping coach. She is an avid chef and an artist.

When it came time for new league-wide pregame shirts in honor of Pride month, Barnie didn’t hesitate to blend her passions.

“Any excuse I have to get the drawing books and pencils out and be creative and draw on these artistic skills, I’ll jump at those opportunties,” Barnie said. “I was honored to be asked to do something as big as this and was excited to work with the league on it.”

As part of the NWSL’s “Beyond the Field” program, Barnie is in a cohort of current and former players who meet regularly to help set them up for success after their playing days. After having designed the Spirit’s Disability Awareness Month shirts in 2024, Barnie knew how special it was to see her work be represented on the pitch.

So she got to work.

“There were a lot of iterations, I’m not going to lie,” Barnie said with a laugh. “I had in my mind from the start that I wanted something bright and colorful. I wanted something joyful and powerful and energetic all at the same time.”

The back of the shirt features a rainbow fanned out around a soccer ball, bursting in color. The soccer ball is enclosed by two hands making a heart in the middle. Underneath features a shadowy player breaking away and roaring crowds on either side.

“I love drawing hands, so I wanted to incorporate hands somehow,” Barnie said. “I thought it’d be fun to have the hands in a heart shape as a symbol of love and togetherness through that. I knew I wanted to include players, but also fans because they’re both essential pieces of this league and women’s sports.”

Those components of the NWSL also are what make Pride month across the league as vibrant as it is essential. Barnie said the league is a valuable voice when it comes to this kind of advocacy and celebration.

“This league is on such a big pedestal and has so much power and influence on people and culture. I think it's just a good way to promote acceptance and equality and do all that while celebrating the history and culture of this community,” she said. “I think the more we can kind of set examples there as a league, the more other people will follow.”

Fans can see Barnie’s artwork on pregame shirts around the league throughout the month and can buy their own shirt at the NWSL Shop. For every club-branded Pride merchandise sold, 10% of proceeds will go to a cause of that club’s choice, and 10% of league-branded merchandise will benefit Athlete Ally, an organization dedicated to ensuring that every LGBTQIA+ person is welcome and safe in sports.
