After some truly dramatic matches (penalty saves! last-minute goals! upsets!), it’s time to reset and see what’s in store for Matchweek 19. Luckily, the answer is goals. Several of the highest scoring teams in the league face off this weekend in what’s sure to be some high-flying matches. Let’s take a look at what’s ahead.

North Carolina Courage vs. Angel City FC - Wednesday, August 26 | 8:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Gotham FC vs. Portland Thorns - Friday, August 28 | 8:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

San Diego Wave vs. Racing Louisville - Friday, August 28 | 10:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Kansas City Current vs. North Carolina Courage - Saturday, August 29 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

Orlando Pride vs. Utah Royals - Saturday, August 29 | 7:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Denver Summit vs. Chicago Stars - Saturday, August 29 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

Washington Spirit vs. Bay FC - Sunday, August 30 | 12:30 PM ET (ESPN2, ESPN app)

Seattle Reign vs. Houston Dash - Sunday, August 30 | 7:00 PM ET (Roku)

Boston Legacy vs. Angel City FC - Monday,, August 31 | 8:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

If San Diego, Utah, or Portland win, they will jump to second place.

If Angel City beats Boston and Seattle loses to Houston, Angel City will regain the last playoff spot.

If Kansas City beats North Carolina, Kansas City will move into sixth place and bump North Carolina to seventh.

Why it matters: Even the standings are showing some signs of chaos. Only one point separates second place from fifth place. Any movement at the top will cause a massive shakeup. The same could be said for the teams on the playoff bubble. Angel City (9th place), Houston (10th place), and Orlando (11th place) are all sitting on 26 points. The last playoff spot is truly up for grabs, and every week is a new chance to take it.

Reigning Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga will be squaring off against this season’s Golden Boot leader Ashley Sanchez when the Kansas City Current take on the North Carolina Courage. This is to say nothing of the teams’ other attacking talent, namely Croix Bethune for Kansas City and Evelyn Ijeh for North Carolina. Both teams are in the top 5 total goals for the season, so expect a show.

The matchup between the Portland Thorns and Gotham FC is a case of an unstoppable force versus an immovable object. Portland’s offense is on fire. Sophia Wilson leads the league in both shots on goal and total shots. Pietra Tordin leads in total assists and is tied with Ashley Sanchez for the most goal contributions.

Meanwhile, Gotham has one of the best defenses in the league. They lead in total shutouts courtesy of goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger and have the lowest number of goals conceded per match. Will offense or defense matter more in such a tight battle?

Seattle Reign is holding onto the last playoff spot with 27 points. The Houston Dash are lurking right behind them at 26 points. If Houston wins, Seattle is certainly sliding out of playoff contention. It’s a crucial match for both sides, so expect all-out play from everyone, especially attacking powerhouses Kat Rader and Maddie Mercado.

After a heartbreaking last minute loss to Chicago, Racing Louisville will certainly be looking forward to getting back to their scoring ways against the San Diego Wave. Louisville is currently in the top five highest-scoring teams in the league, thanks in no small part to the electric attacking lineup of Emma Sears, Kayla Fischer, Taylor Flint, and Lauren Milliet. They’ll be facing off against San Diego, who are coming off a resounding 4-2 victory over Utah. Translation: expect a lot of goals.
