Last week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Awards featuring Defender of the Year. The 2023 NWSL Awards are voted upon in two rounds with fans having the opportunity to participate in the final round of the voting process.

Last week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Awards featuring Defender of the Year. The 2023 NWSL Awards are voted upon in two rounds with fans having the opportunity to participate in the final round of the voting process.In the preliminary round of voting, players, owners, general managers, coaches and the media voted on individual awards to determine the finalists. The preliminary round used a weighted scale, broken down by players (50%), owners/GMs/coaches (25%) and media (25%). The final round of voting uses a weighted scale of players (40%), owners/GMs/coaches (25%), media (25%) and fans (10%). Below is a recap of notable statistics and performances from the Defender of the Year finalists during the 2023 NWSL regular season. For a full list of award finalists, including Most Valuable Player, Presented by Bud Light, Goalkeeper of the Year, Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally, and Coach of the Year, click here.

Naomi Girma – San Diego Wave FC

Girma’s defense helped lead San Diego Wave FC to an 11-win season en route to its first NWSL Shield. The San Jose, California native led a Wave defense that allowed just 22 goals, tied for the second lowest mark in the league, and 91 shots on target, tied for third fewest in the league. San Diego conceded 222 fouls during the regular season, the fourth lowest total in the league, with Girma committing just four fouls in 19 regular-season appearances. The reigning Defender of the Year finished fifth in the league with 948 successful passes and was the third-most accurate passer at 88.7 percent.

Sarah Gorden – Angel City FC

Gorden played every minute of the regular season in 2023, recording her second ironwoman season and her first with Angel City FC. Gorden led the club in successful passes (799) and blocks (11), while finishing second on the roster in possessions won (180) and third in interceptions (20). Angel City did not lose a match from Week 12 to Week 19, allowing just six goals during an eight-game unbeaten streak. This strong team defense anchored by Gorden helped Angel City reach the playoffs for the first time in club history. Gorden’s individual performance earned her two selections to the Best XI of the month.

Ali Krieger – NJ/NY Gotham FC

Krieger’s 10th and final NWSL season was one to remember, highlighted by an impressive goal-line clearance in NJ/NY Gotham FC’s regular season finale to help the club reach the playoffs. Gotham FC’s defense allowed 24 goals, tied for the third lowest mark in the league. The club’s 205 shots faced was by far the fewest in the league, with the North Carolina Courage finishing second in this category with 244. Krieger led the club in blocks (10), interceptions (30) and successful passes (565), while finishing second on the club in possessions won (132).

Kaleigh Kurtz – North Carolina Courage

The North Carolina Courage defender recorded her second consecutive ironwoman season, playing every minute of the regular season. North Carolina allowed just 22 goals, tied for the second lowest mark in the league, and allowed fewer shots on target than any team in the league (77). Kurtz led the Courage with 76 clearances and was third on the team with 154 possessions won. Her 22 blocks were tied for the second most in the league. While helping her club earn a spot in the playoffs, Kurtz led the NWSL with 1376 successful passes, with a passing accuracy of 83.3 percent.

Sam Staab – Washington Spirit

While recording her third ironwoman season, Washington Spirit defender Sam Staab led her team with 21 blocks, the fourth most in the league, to go along with 25 interceptions, making her one of just two players to tally at least 20 in both categories this season. Staab also finished second on the Spirit with 148 possessions won and was fifth in the league with 84 clearances. The durable defender, who has started every regular season match for the Spirit since joining the club in 2019, also recorded 852 successful passes, the most for the club and ninth in the league.

Award winners will be announced in the days surrounding the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, set to kick off Saturday, November 11 at 8 p.m. ET at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California. The contest will air live on the CBS Television Network and stream on Paramount+ and internationally on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.

In addition to the awards listed above, the winner of the third annual Nationwide Community Impact Award will be announced and honored at halftime of the Championship match. For more details on the Nationwide Community Impact Award, please click here. The league will also announce the Championship MVP, presented by Bud Light, during the on-field post-match presentation.

Tickets for the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, are available here.
