It’s the most wonderful time of the year: NWSL Decision Day. Seven matchups – all but one kicking off at the same exact time.

Here’s everything you need to know going into Decision Day 2025.

Decision Day kicks off with back-to-back games on ESPN. Kansas City vs. San Diego starts at 3 p.m. with North Carolina Courage vs. Gotham FC following at 5 p.m. The rest of the action will be on NWSL+, a free app that is available to download on your laptop, mobile device and Apple TV, Fire TV and Roku devices. All you have to do is make an account.

Week 25 saw four teams clinch their playoff berths, but the final spot is a race between two clubs separated by just two points. For North Carolina and Louisville, it is all or nothing on Nov. 2. The stakes are staying alive or watching playoff dreams slip out of their hands.

Racing Louisville is in the midst of their best season as a club to date, but they have never managed to crack the top eight and secure a playoff seed, finishing consistently in ninth place year after year.

This time, Racing are determined to not be on the outside looking in. All they need to do is secure three points against Bay FC to make history.

The Courage, on the other hand, have only missed the playoffs once in club history when they fell short in 2022. With three NWSL Shields and four NWSL Championship victories, excellence is expected in Cary.

Want to make this even spicier? Racing beat the Courage in North Carolina for the first time ever on Oct. 4 with a decisive 3-1 win, and North Carolina goes up against Jaedyn Shaw and her Gotham teammates for the first time since being traded.

With Kansas City and Washington already locked in at No. 1 and No. 2 respectively, that means there are two spots left that could secure home field advantage. In this league, that can make or break a team.

Whoever wins in the match between the Orlando Pride and the Seattle Reign could secure the third seed, while the loser could drop as low as seventh place depending on the rest of the day’s results. Earning that No. 3 spot means avoiding a trip to CPKC Stadium or Audi Field.

The second half of the NWSL season saw unexpected surges from teams at the bottom of the table. The Houston Dash defeated the Goliath that is the 2025 Kansas City Current. The Chicago Stars went on a comeback run the club has never before seen. The Utah Royals found their groove just a hair too late.

All of this is to say, just because a team isn’t competing in the playoffs doesn’t mean they are going to roll over and take a loss. Far from it. These clubs are fighting for something more -- each other.

Fans can start the day with back-to-back games on ESPN. Kansas City vs. San Diego starts at 3 p.m. with North Carolina Courage vs. Gotham FC at 5 p.m. The rest of the action will be on NWSL+, a free app that is available to download on your laptop, mobile device and Apple TV, Fire TV and Roku devices. All you have to do is make an account.

To maximize the viewing experience, get a friend or two to bring over their laptops or computers. Using NWSL+ on a second screen, viewers can choose four games for split screen viewing.

It’s essentially a DIY NWSL “Red Zone.”

Suggested viewing:

One television on ESPN starting at 3 p.m. for the Kansas City Current vs. San Diego Wave game through the North Carolina Courage vs. Gotham FC match at 5 p.m.

Starting at 5 p.m., add second screens to have all the action at your fingertips. If you can only find one other device, you’ll be able to watch six of seven games. Secure that second device and you won’t miss a thing.
