Four matches. Eight teams. Three medals on the line.

The first round of knockouts are over, sending four teams home early. For the remaining teams, reaching the semifinals guarantees the opportunity to play for a medal. But whether that medal is gold or bronze is to be determined.

If you missed the matches, we have a quick recap of all the action for you so you can prepare for the next round!

United States 1, Japan 0

Facing a similarly compact opponent, the USWNT struggled to penetrate Japan’s defense. Japan managed a few counter-attacks but failed to capitalize on their chances. As the match headed into extra time, the USWNT dug deep.

In the 105th minute, Gotham FC forward Crystal Dunn launched a long ball to Washington Spirit forward Trinity Rodman. Rodman controlled the pass, outmaneuvered her defender, and slotted the ball into the far corner of the net. The USWNT held on through the remaining extra-time minutes and will now advance to a group stage rematch against Germany, with a chance to compete for the gold medal.

Spain 2 (4), Colombia 2 (2)

Despite taking a two-goal lead with early strikes in each half from Washington Spirit new addition Leicy Santos and Chelsea FC’s Mayra Ramirez, Colombia couldn’t hold off the World Cup champions. Spain equalized thanks to two late-game goals from Jennifer Hermoso and Irene Paredes. In the penalty shootout, Spanish goalkeeper Cata Coll saved Colombia's first attempt, and a missed third effort sealed Colombia's fate. Spain will now face Brazil in the semifinals.

Germany 0 (4), Canada 0 (2)

Canada and Germany, similarly to Spain and Colombia, needed a penalty shootout to settle their Olympic clash, with Germany emerging victorious 4-2. Both teams had ample chances in regulation – Canada's Adriana Leon missing a golden opportunity in the 87th minute, thwarted by Gotham FC keeper Ann-Katrin Berger, and in stoppage time, Germany’s Marina Hegering nearly scored, but her header grazed the crossbar.

With no decisive action in extra time, the match went to penalties where the hero of the match, Berger, starred by saving two penalty kicks and scoring the game-winner, propelling Germany to a semifinal matchup against the U.S.

Brazil 1, France 0

Brazil, without Orlando Pride forward Marta, faced off against host nation France, ranked No. 2 in the world, and emerged with a surprising 1-0 victory. Brazilian goalkeeper Lorena Leita saved an early French penalty, and Gabi Portilho capitalized on a late French mistake to score the winner. Despite an astonishing 18 minutes and 30 seconds of stoppage time, France failed to equalize, sending Brazil to the next round.
