NEW YORK (September 5, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of August by the NWSL Media Association. Headlined by Player of the Month Ludmila, seven teams are represented in the league’s Top 11.

GK – Jordyn Bloomer (LOU): Bloomer recorded two clean sheets and made NWSL history when she saved to penalty kicks in a game (outside of a shootout).

D – Sofia Huerta (SEA): Huerta earned her 32nd career assist, breaking the NWSL all-time assists record.

D – Izzy Rodriguez (KC): Rodriguez scored her first goal of the season against the Courage and is tied for the league lead in assists with five, two of which she earned in August.

D – Kayla Sharples (KC): Sharples anchors the league’s top-rated defense and is the only Current player to play every minute this season.

D – Sam Staab (CHI): Staab played every minute in August, assisted two of Ludmila’s hat trick goals, and made a crucial save against the Spirit to preserve a draw.

M – Kenza Dali (SD): Dali scored the game-winning goal against Bay FC and led all players in chances created with 15.

M – Jess Fishlock (SEA): Fishlock scored goals in three straight games to open up the month and notched an assist.

M – Taylor Flint (LOU): Flint played every minute this month, scored her fourth goal of the season and led the league with 16 interceptions in August.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): Chawinga scored three goals in August, including two game-winners.

F – Esther González (GFC) González leads the Golden Boot race to end the month, scoring two goals in four games.

F – Ludmila (CHI): Ludmila scored five goals in three games and set the record for the league’s fastest hat trick, scoring three goals in just 10 minutes and nine seconds.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis.
