Get your tissues ready. The NWSL announced the 2025 nominees for the Lauren Holiday Impact Award presented, by Nationwide this week, with each team selecting a player who exemplifies outstanding service and character off the pitch. This year, Nationwide will award the winner $50,000 to go towards the community partner of their choosing.

Some teams decided to hit fans in the feels with the announcement. Check out some videos from across the league below.

Sam Hiatt's dedication to the community is personal. Her younger brother was diagnosed with lymphoma in 2020. When she landed in Portland, she started working with Candlelighters for Children with Cancer, a local group that supports families impacted by pediatric cancer.

In a video posted on Instagram, Hiatt explains why she uses her platform to give back and to help families like hers.

The Courage tapped in Wake Forest women's soccer coach Tony la Luz to break the news to Hannah Betfort.

"You got Papa de Luz," Betfort said, looking into the camera in awe.

It's a precious moment tying in Betfort's community work from her college days to now.

While the Courage got Betfort right after training, the Current struck during a team meeting. After watching film, a video popped up that was a bit out of place.

Turns out, Kansas City brought out the biggest name of all for Claire Hutton: her mom. Before sharing the news, mom had a message for Claire's teammates.

"First off, please stop telling Claire that ranch is better than bleu cheese on wings and that milk with dinner is not normal," Jen Hutton said. "Claire, I hope you're not too embarrassed right now, but I wanted to tell you how proud I am of you."

Claire thanked her teammates, but couldn't let the moment pass without getting the last word.

"Bleu cheese always wins," she said.

These are just three of the 14 nominees across the league doing great work in their local communities. If you are interested in learning more about the rest of the nominees, please visit https://www.nwslsoccer.com/lauren-holiday-impact-award-2025.
