The 2026 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON) in Morocco is fast approaching. After being rescheduled, the tournament will officially kick off this Sunday, July 26.

The tournament determines the best team in Africa, but it also doubles as the Confederation of African Football’s (CAF) Women’s World Cup qualifiers. The top four teams in the tournament will automatically qualify for the 2027 FIFA Women’s World Cup in Brazil, and two more teams will advance to the inter-confederation playoff tournament at the end of this year, where three final spots are on the line. ‘

Last year, Nigeria (including Michelle Alozie) lifted the trophy and are strongly favored to repeat it again, but competition is even fiercer this year.

The NWSL has a large presence in the tournament this year, with eight teams being represented and 11 players total across seven of the 16 nations participating.

Mélissa Bethi (Washington Spirit)

Monique Ngock (Washington Spirit)

Rosemonde Kouassi (Washington Spirit)

Temwa Chawinga (Kansas City Current)

Aïssata Traoré (Boston Legacy)

Deborah Abiodun (Washington Spirit)

Gift Monday (Washington Spirit)

Michelle Alozie (Chicago Stars)

Barbra Banda (Orlando Pride)

Racheal Kundananji (Bay FC)

Prisca Chilufya (Angel City FC)

Can Nigeria defend their continental title?

Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda leads the NWSL in goals this season and Bay FC forward Racheal Kundananji just scored last weekend. Will they power Zambia to a historic run and lift their first-ever WAFCON trophy?

Can 2025 NWSL MVP and Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga lead Malawi to their first-ever knockout stage appearance?

Mali forward Aïssata Traoré is tied with Amanda Gutierres as expansion team Boston Legacy’s leading scorer. Could she emerge as one of WAFCON’s breakout stars?

The tournament kicks off Sunday, July 26, but the first NWSL player in action comes on Monday, July 27, when Washington Spirit forward Rosemonde Kouassi and Ivory Coast face Burkina Faso at 4 p.m. ET.

Be sure to follow your favorite NWSL clubs throughout WAFCON as their players compete for a continental title and a spot at the 2027 FIFA Women's World Cup.
