Jill Loyden knows goalkeeping. The former keeper is now an NWSL analyst on ION’s national matches, and she has a keen eye for what is working in goal.

Across the NWSL, keepers have stepped it up. Whether it’s tried and true veterans or those getting their first chance to shine in the league, there have been plenty of highlight worthy moments in net already.

Loyden’s got her eye on a few keepers as the NWSL prepares to return to play this weekend.

In no particular order, these are her five goalkeepers to watch in the second half of the season.

“AKB is coming off of one of the most incredible and consequential performances at least in the last decade, if not longer, playing for Germany in the UEFA Women’s Euro 2025. She has an uncanny ability to stop shots in goal defense, but an even more uncommon ability to stop shots long before they occur. Not only does she have the most preventative actions outside the penalty area, as she likes to vertically position herself higher to protect the space behind Gotham’s high line, but she has the highest number of crosses influenced in the league.

There is a tangible confidence about her. She makes the incredible saves but also seems to be in charge of every situation, which gives Gotham an overwhelming sense of security. She’s performing at the peak of her career, a master of all the tasks of a goalkeeper, and why she’s one of the best allrounders in the world is one to watch.”

“Racing Louisville has been on the cusp of breaking into playoffs since their inception, but perhaps this year feels like their best chances yet to finally break through and make it to post- season play. Racing had a tough start to the season going 1-3-2 in their first six games. Whether it be by happenstance or direct correlation, since Jordyn Bloomer has taken over as the starting goalkeeper, the team has gone 5-2 with big wins over Gotham, ACFC, and the Orlando Pride.

Bloomer doesn’t lead in any statistical categories in the league because her skillset is difficult to quantify by numbers. She is an excellent shot stopper, able to contort and manipulate her body in unexpected ways, but excels because of leadership, communication, and presence. Bloomer’s communication is vital to help organize the rest of the defense and the high pressing structures. The high press is what Racing Louisville’s success depends on. If the press is organized, Racing can commandeer possession and directly progress up a shortened field toward goal. If the press is broken, Bloomer is the perfect solution to make the goal feel as small as possible for opposition attackers who have to make decisions quickly on the break.

Perhaps Bloomer entered the fray at the exact right time for this Racing Louisville team who has had all the potential in the world, but lacked direction and clarity in their game plan.”

“Claudia Dickey has been one of the most improved goalkeepers in the league over the last couple years. She has improved in close range shot stopping scenarios and managing one-on-one situations, adding different tools to solve a multitude of problems.

Where she continues to shine is her shot stopping abilities and her ability to influence a cross. Seattle is a team that thrives in low variance games. They may not score many goals, but they are always in every game. This is a style that adds inherent pressure to the defense, specifically the goalkeeper, to always have to play on the razor’s edge. If Seattle Reign want to continue to push for playoffs this year, Dickey will have to continue to be proactive at claiming crosses and overperforming the expected goals against.”

“Offense sells tickets, but defense wins championships. There's no question that Kansas City has had one of the most scintillating attacks over the last two years, but defensively they had been doubted. The Current bolstered their defensive efforts with the signing of Almuth Schult last season. After Schult retired in March, and Lorena has proven a reliable and trustworthy replacement.

Lorena’s skillset suits the Current’s playing style like a missing puzzle piece. Kansas City is a team that will commit numbers behind the ball and create density, especially centrally, when the ball is in their half. The opposition's space in the final third is restricted, forcing opponents out wide and having to gain production from set pieces and crosses. Lorena’s x-factor is her ability to protect the goal area in exactly those two situations. She has a domineering presence, an intelligent eye for which line to win the ball on, and a bravery which makes her hard to sidestep.”

“Kailen Sheridan is a goalkeeping revolutionary that is redefining the function of a goalkeeper. Traditionally, we have labeled goalkeepers as simply shot stoppers, but long gone are those days. Goalkeepers then evolved to be ‘good with their feet,’ which is where Sheridan came into the league.

Over her career in the NWSL, she has matured into the best in possession goalkeeper in the world. She's not just good at threading passes, playing in central corridors, or even hitting longer passes behind backlines. She can read opposition presses, solve pressure in a multitude of different ways, manipulate hybrid pressing structures to create space in different areas of the field. She is the deepest lying playmaker in the world. Sheridan is an integral piece to the way San Diego Wave want to play, instigate the press and activate gamechangers higher up the field. She needs to be able to think fast and act slowly to draw opponents and quickly exploit the space in which the opposition leave. She makes it look effortless and simple – it's anything but.”
