Last Updated October 10, 2024

WEEK 24: October 18-20

SPIRITED ROOKIES

The Washington Spirit midfielder Heather Stainbrook became the 23rd rookie to score her first professional goal and the sixth Spirit rookie to score this season with 15 of the Spirit’s 50 goals have been scored by rookies this season.

Rookie forward Makenna Morris secured the victory for the home team in the 83rd minute her fifth goal this season tying her with fellow teammate midfielder Croix Bethune and Racing Louisville forward Emma Sears for the rookie scoring lead.

GISELE ASSIST

Angel City FC defender Gisele Thompson registered her first professional assist on forward Sydney Leroux's volley from the top of the 18-yard box to bring the score level in a 1-1 draw against the Utah Royals.

WEEK 22: October 4-6

ALLY ASSIST

Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor picked up her fourth assist of the season in her first game back from the Under-20 Women’s World Cup where she came home with a bronze medal. The tally means she is now tied for the second-most in a single season in Utah club history. The Royals went on to defeat the Portland Thorns 2-1.

HEATHER HITS THE FIELD

Washington Spirit midfielder Heather Stainbrook made her first career regular season start for Washington on Sunday at Orlando in the club's 2-0 loss to the undefeated Pride.

CURRY LEADER

Angel City FC defender Madison Curry continues to lead Angel City with 42 tackles and 22 interceptions.

WEEK 21: September 27-29

MORRIS MORE GOALS

The Washington Spirit defeated Angel City FC 2-1 with rookie midfielder Makenna Morris notching her second game-winning goal in the 78th minute.

CORI ASSIST

Orlando Pride midfielder Cori Dyke tallied the assist on defender Carson Pickett’s goal to open the scoring against the Houston Dash in a 3-1 victory.

MYA GOAL

San Diego Wave FC forward Mya Jones scored for the Wave in the club’s victory over the Portland Thorns.

WEEK 20: September 20-23

SEARS SOARING

Racing Louisville FC forward Emma Sears kickstarted Louisville’s comeback victory by bringing the score level in the 79th minute of action, her fourth goal this season.

HANNASSIST

Chicago Red Stars defender Hannah Anderson notched the assist on forward Ludmila’s goal to give Chicago the 1-0 win over San Diego Wave FC.

WEEK 19: September 13-16

PATTERSON LEADING THE WAY

Houston Dash forward Avery Patterson led Houston with two shots against the Washington Spirit while completing all eight of her passing attempts and drawing two fouls.

PASSING ON PAR

Angel City FC defender Madison Curry led the club in touches against Racing Louisville completing 62 of 72 passes for an 86.1 passing percentage. Meanwhile, San Diego Wave FC forward Kennedy Wesley completed 45 of 53 passes in the club’s victory over the Utah Royals.

ROOKIES IN THE WORLD CUP

Eight NWSL rookie stars, featured on the United States Under-20 Women’s Youth National Team take on North Korea on Wednesday, September 18 at 4:39 p.m. ET in the semifinals of the Under-20 Women’s World Cup in Colombia. Follow all eight rookies on their World Cup journey with the Tournament Notebook, a day-by-day recap of achievements by NWSL players in the U-20 Women’s World Cup.

WEEK 18: September 6-8

PATTERSON TIES IT UP

Rookie forward Avery Patterson tallied the assist on forward Diana Ordóñez’s goal in the 2-1 loss to NJ/NY Gotham FC.

WESLEY HONORS A LEGEND

San Diego Wave forward Kennedy Wesley clocked the goal during forward Alex Morgan’s retirement game in the 13th minute of action during the club’s 4-1 loss to the North Carolina Courage.

WEEK 17: August 30-September 1

CROIX’S WORLD

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune notched her 10th assist this season, tying the league record for tallies in a single season set by Tobin Heath with the Portland Thorns in 2016.

BEA GREAT

Chicago Red Stars Bea Franklin clocked her first NWSL goal late in first half stoppage time in the club’s 2-1 loss to Angel City FC.

WEEK 16: August 23-25

QUEEN CROIX

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune tied the league record with 10 single season assists during the club’s 4-1 win over the Kansas City Current. Bethune has five goals and 10 assists this season, leading all rookies in both categories.

JOSEPH STRIKES

Chicago Red Stars forward Jameese Joseph recorded a goal in the 59th minute in the club’s loss to Racing Louisville.

SUMMER CUP GROUP STAGE (7/26-28)

CASEY THE FIELD

Angel City FC forward Casey Phair subbed into the match in the 66th minute for her first appearance on the field in all competitions this season.

MAK MAKES HISTORY

NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Mak Whitman became the youngest player to appear in a league competition at 14 years, 1 day as Gotham FC moved into the driver’s seat of Group D with a 1-0 shutout of Washington

KERR CARRYING

Orlando Pride forward Alex Kerr scored in the run of play and made the winning penalty kick in Orlando’s shootout victory over Monterrey

SENTNOR GAME WINNER

Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor bagged the eventual game-winner as Utah scored three goals for the first time this year, defeating Portland 3-1

EMERI GETS ONE

Seattle Reign forward Emeri Adames recorded a goal to pull one back from Tijuana in the club’s loss on July 28.

SUMMER CUP GROUP STAGE (7/19 - 7/21)

BAY STARS START

Bay FC started five rookies during the club’s 3-1 loss to the San Diego Wave matching the Utah Royals for most first year players starting a match. During the game, defender Maddie Moreau recorded a goal to pull one back from the Wave while rookie goalkeeper Emmie Allen started her first professional match during the game.

SEARS SCORES

Racing Louisville forward Emma Sears recorded her fourth goal of the season in all competitions to bring the score level in the club’s 3-1 victory over Monterrey.

WESLEY WINNER

San Diego Wave defender Kennedy Wesley recorded her first professional goal in the club’s 3-1 win over neighbors to the south, Bay FC.

FULLER FUEL

Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller recorded a goal during the club's 2-1 win over Club America. Fuller opened the scoring in the 29th minute to put Angel City up early.

O-LIVING THE DREAM

Portland Thorns defeated Tijuana 5-0 on Sunday with midfielder Olivia Wade-Katoa notching her first professional goal in the 18th minute.

WEEK 15 July 5-7

MORRIS MORE STATS

Washington Spirit midfielder Makenna Morris made her first career start and became the first player in Spirit history to score a goal, draw a penalty kick and assist a goal in the same match as the Spirit defeated Bay FC on the road, 3-0. It was the Spirit’s fourth straight away win, extending a club record.

SENTNOR STRIKES

Utah Royals forward, and #1 pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, Ally Sentnor recorded her third goal of the season in Utah’s 1-1 draw against the Seattle Reign. Sentnor leads all rookies with 19 shots on target.

TURNER SCORES

Racing Louisville forward Reilyn Turner recorded her fourth goal of the season in the club’s 3-1 loss to the North Carolina Courage on Sunday.

WEEK 14 June 28-30

JOSEPH PASSES, JOSEPH SCORES

Chicago Red Stars midfielder Jameese Joseph became the 19th rookie to score this season after she recorded a goal and an assist in the same match making her the third rookie this season to achieve the feat.

WEEK 13: June 19-23

ROOKIES WITH SPIRIT

Courtney Brown recorded her first professional goal for the Washington Spirit in the club's 2-0 victory over NJ/NY Gotham FC. The past three out of four goals scored by the Spirit have come from rookies with defender midfielders Croix Bethune, Courtney and defender Kate Wiesner all tallying a goal in the previous three games. Brown’s goal came off an assist from fellow rookie midfielder Croix Bethune, her ninth assist of the year adding to her rookie record and league lead while closing within one assists of Tobin Heath’s single season league record.

TWO FIRSTS

San Diego Wave forward Mya Jones recorded her first professional goal in a 2-1 loss against NJ/NY Gotham FC with defender Maycee Bell puting away her first professional goal and game-winner in the 98th minute to seal the victory.

RACING ROOKIES

Racing Louisville forward Reilyn Turner scored her third goal of the season, tied for second-most among rookies in the 97th minute against the Seattle Reign to earn her club a 1-1 draw. Forward Emma Sears picked up her first assist on Carson Pickett’s midweek goal in Week 13 in a 3-2 loss to Angel City FC.

FULLER SCORER

Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller opened the scoring with her first professional goal in Angel City’s 3-2 midweek win over Racing Louisville. She is the third-youngest player to score in an NWSL regular season match behind fellow rookie and Kansas City Current midfielder Alex Pfeiffer and Portland Thorns midfielder Olivia Moultrie. In the match, rookie defender Madison Curry recorded the first assist of her career.

WEEK 12: June 14-16

SENTNOR STAYS ON

The #1 pick in the NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor is the only rookie who has started every game for her club. Sentnor recorded her third assist on midfielder Kate Del Fava’s game-winning goal in the club’s 1-0 victory over Bay FC.

MADISON LEADING

Angel City FC defender Madison Curry leads all rookies with 49 clearances, 23 interceptions, and 23 tackles won.

CROIX LAST MINUTE

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune most recently recorded her fifth goal of the season to equalize the score in the 96th minute extending the Spirit’s unbeaten streak to five games. Bethune leads all rookies with five goals and eight assists. Her eight assists so far have set a new league record for assists by a rookie and leads the league this season. The league record for assists in one season is 10, set by Tobin Heath in 2016.

WEEK 11: June 7-9

HUTTON HUSTLIN’

Kansas City Current rookie midfielder Claire Hutton leads the league with 33 tackles won through 12 games played. Hutton is one of two rookies who have started every match for their club, joining Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor.

WIESNER GAME-WINNER

Washington Spirit midfielder Kate Wiesner became the 14th rookie to score this season, netting the game-winner for the Spirit in the 1-0 road win at the Utah Royals. With that goal, all three first-round draft picks by the Spirit have scored this season.

ALLY MINUTES

Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor leads all rookies with 1,058 minutes played out of a max 1,080 minutes playing in all but one match for Utah.

CURRY LEADER

Angel City FC defender Madison Curry leads all rookies with 43 clearances which ranks 10th among all players this season. She also leads all rookies with 20 interceptions among the eighth best in the league for the cateogy.

WEEK 10: May 23-25

BETHUNE SCORES MORE

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune notched her fourth goal and eighth assist in a 3-2 win over the Seattle Reign last weekend. Bethune leads all rookies in both categories, notably setting a new league record for assists by a rookie. The record for assists by any player in a single season was set by Tobin Heath in 2016 with 10 assists.

EMERI FIRST

Seattle Reign forward Emeri Adames recorded her first goal of her NWSL career and is also the youngest goal scorer in Reign history and 10th teenager to score all-time in the NWSL regular season.

SEARS SOARING TO VICTORY

Emma Sears recorded the lone goal in Racing Louisville’s 1-0 victory over the Chicago Red Stars when a ball deflected off the defender landed at her feet at the top of the box which she rocketed into the upper corner to win Week 10 Goal of the Week honors.

HUTTON ASSIST

Claire Hutton assisted Elizabeth Ball’s goal in a 1-0 victory over Utah as she headed the ball in the box landing directly at Ball’s feet who shot it past the keeper to put the Current ahead.

WEEK 9: May 17-19

STARTING ROOKIES

Three rookies have started every match for their clubs this season including the Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor, Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune and Kansas City Current midfielder Claire Hutton.

BETHUNE BE GREAT

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune leads all rookies with three goals and seven assists making her the fifth player in NWSL history, and the first since 2015, to record 10 goal contributions in her first 10 career matches. Most recently in a 4-2 victory over Angel City FC, Bethune notched two assists and now holds the club and league records for assists by a rookie passing teammate forward Trinity Rodman.

SEARS SOARING

Racing Louisville forward Emma Sears tallied her second goal of her NWSL career in a 3-3 tie over the undefeated Kansas City Current. Sears has also notched two assists during her time with Louisville.

WEEK 8: May 8-12

BETHUNE CONTINUES

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune notched her fifth assist off forward Ouleymata Sarr's goal against Racing Louisville.

SENT TO THE TOP

Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor leads Utah with 20 shots, 12 on target, and two goals with both of her goals being scored from outside the box.

HELPING LINNE-HAND IN THE WIN

Portland Thorns forward Payton Linnehan helped the Thorns beat Cascadia rivals Seattle Reign 4-0 after scoring off an assist from Sophia Smith. Linnehan has two goals and one assist to begin her NWSL career with the Thorns.

JOSEPH ASSIST

Chicago Red Stars forward Jamese Joseph notched her first assist of the season solidifying Chicago’s 3-1 victory. She made an immediate impact with the assist after entering the game off the bench in the 82 minute.

WEEK 7: May 1-5

ROOKIES GETTING MINUTES

Kansas City Current forward Claire Hutton and Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor are just two rookies who have played every minute of the regular season so far. Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune has started every possible match for the Spirit. Through Week 7, a total of 38 rookies have made at least one appearance, and 30 have started at least one game.

ROOKIE NETTING GOALS

12 rookies have scored a total of 17 goals, and seven rookies have logged at least one assist. Three rookies scored their first pro goals in Week 7 including Chicago Red Stars midfielder Leilanni Nesbeth, Portland Thorns forward Payton Linnehan and Houston Dash forward Amanda West.

BETHUNE ASSISTS

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune became the fifth player in league history to record three assists in a regular-season game in Washington’s 4-2 win at the Chicago Red Stars, and she became the first-ever rookie to do so. She was named Rookie of the Month for March/April.

WEEK 6: April 26-29

ROOKIE TO ROOKIE

Racing Louisville forward Reilyn Turner scored her second goal of the season and the latest goal for Louisville this season in 90+5 against Gotham FC who brought the score level two minutes later. Rookie Emma Sears brought the ball endline and sent a dangerous cross into the box that deflected and landed at the feet of Turner.

BETHUNE’S FIRST ASSIST

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune recorded her first professional assist over the weekend as Ouleymata Sarr scored her second goal of the season. Bethune continues to lead all rookies with three goals this regular season.

WEEK 5: April 19-21

ROOKIE’S CLASS ACT

There have been seven rookies who have scored through five weeks of play. The top six picks in the 2024 NWSL Draft have combined for 12 goal contributions already this season with eight goals and four assists.

THREE ROOKIES, THREE GOALS

In the Utah Royals vs. Racing Louisville saw a new first as three rookies secured their first pro goals of the season. Royals’ defender Olivia Griffitts and Louisville’s forwards Reilyn Turner and Emma Sears each tallied their first goals of the season in the same game.

ROYAL ROOKIES

Three of the Utah Royals’ four goals have come from rookies including two from forward Ally Sentnor and one from defender Olivia Griffitts who scored her first goal against Racing Louisville.

CURRENT ROOKIES GETTING MINUTES

Defender Ellie Wheeler and midfielder Claire Hutton from the Kansas City Current are just two-of-four rookies league-wide to play every minute so far and helped the Current secure a 5-2 victory over Bay FC.

BETHUNE’S NOT DONE

Washington Spirit midfielder Croix Bethune scored her third goal in her last four games of her NWSL career after Casey Krueger set Bethune up at the top of the box to beat the keeper on the near post. She also became the third Spirit player, joining Diana Matheson and Mallory Swanson to score three goals in her first five appearances with the team. Bethune’s impact did not stop with a goal as she found herself in the box drawing a penalty after taking a shot that led to a handball converted by forward Ashley Hatch.

WEEK 4: April 12-14

ROOKIE CLASS IN SESSION

The top 5 rookies from the 2024 Draft have six combined goals through four weeks of action. Washington Spirit midfielders Croix Bethune and Hal Hershfelt each have two goals, respectively. The No. 1 pick in the 2024 Draft selected by the Utah Royals FC, forward Ally Sentnor, has notched a pair of goals herself so far this campaign. Additionally, defender Savy King registered her first assist for Bay FC in their 3-2 victory over Seattle Reign.

CURRY’S IMPACT

Angel City FC rookie defender, Madison Curry, got her second professional start in last weekend’s match against the Chicago Red Stars and made an impact on the game. Most notably, Curry created several offensive chances, including a lofted cross to Jasmyne Spencer, who headed the ball on target that was ultimately covered by Red Stars goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher.

KENNEDY’S CALL UP

San Diego Wave defender Kennedy Wesley made her NWSL and professional debut over the weekend against Racing Louisville FC after a week of training as she prepared to fill the role of an injured Naomi Girma. Head Coach Casey Stoney gave Wesley plenty of preparation along with encouragement from fellow former Stanford teammate Girma. She had a very successful debut at centerback for the Wave as she helped keep the game scoreless in a 0-0 tie against Louisville.

WEEK 3: MARCH 29-31

CURRY’S COOKING

Angel City defender Madison Curry, the 51st overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, made her first career start against the Kansas City Current, playing the full match. Curry recovered a loose ball in the box and turned it into her first professional goal in the 78th minute. The former Princeton standout also completed 30 passes and recorded a game-high three tackles won.

TURNING POINT

Racing Louisville forward Reilyn Turner earned her second professional assist in a draw against the Portland Thorns, executing a perfectly placed cross to Uchenna Kanu, who scored the header for her second goal of the match.

FIRST STARTS FOR FRAN

Houston Dash head coach Fran Alonso earned the first win of his NWSL coaching career, while rookies Kiki Van Zanten and Amanda West made their first professional starts. West fired two shots, while Van Zanten recorded a game-high three successful dribbles.

SENTNOR’S SECOND

Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor became the first rookie to reach two goals this season, firing a shot in the 71st minute that deflected off a defender and found the back of the net. Sentnor totaled four shots, including three on target, along with seven possessions won and a game-high three tackles won. The former UNC standout also completed 25 of her 30 passes.

WEEK 2: MARCH 22-24

SENTNOR STRIKES

Utah Royals forward Ally Sentnor scored her first professional goal while playing every minute for the second consecutive match. The top overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft struck in the 30th minute against the Norh Carolina Courage, showing off her impressive dribbling before unleashing a shot from the top of the box to give the Royals their first win in the club’s new era.

DOUBLE TROUBLE IN D.C.

The Washington Spirit earned their first win of the season thanks to contributions from top five picks Hal Hershfelt and Croix Bethune. Hershfelt made a great play on a pass from Trinity Rodman in the 23rd minute, firing her shot above Bay FC keeper Lysianne Proulx and into the top corner for her first professional goal. With the game tied in stoppage time, Bethune weaved through defenders, creating just enough space to score her first goal in the 95th minute.

ROCKET REILYN

Racing Louisville FC forward Reilyn Turner, who earned an assist in her NWSL debut last week, registered eight shots against the Houston Dash and reigning Goalkeeper of the Year Jane Campbell, including six on target, while recording a game-high four aerial duels won in a draw.

WEEK 1: MARCH 16-17

KANSAS CITY’S TRIO

The Kansas City Current defeated Portland Thorns FC, 5-4, in the first game at CPKC Stadium, with three rookies making key contributions in the win. Defender Ellie Wheeler, the No. 18 overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, scored in the 25th minute, marking the first goal by a rookie this season. The Penn State alumna played the full match in her NWSL debut alongside 18-year-old midfielder Claire Hutton, who completed 39 passes while leading the Current in tackles (6) and aerial duels won (3). Rookie forward Alex Pfeiffer made history with her goal in the 68th minute, becoming the NWSL’s youngest regular season goal scorer at 16 years and four months. Pfeiffer set the milestone while playing against Thorns midfielder Olivia Moultrie, who previously held the record.

TURNER’S TIME

Racing Louisville FC forward Reilyn Turner, the sixth overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, earned a spot in Bev Yanez’s starting lineup in her NWSL debut, playing 69 minutes in a draw against the Orlando Pride. Turner made her impact early, assisting Elexa Bahr’s goal in the 13th minute.

DASH DEBUTS

Houston Dash forward Avery Patterson, the No. 19 overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, had a promising professional debut, playing the entire match for Fran Alonso’s club. Patterson recorded 60 touches, eight possessions won, seven passes in the final third and three tackles, ranking second on the Dash in all categories. Former Notre Dame midfielder Kiki Van Zanten played 40 minutes off the bench, completing all eight of her passes and earning two possessions won.

LET HER COOK

Chicago Red Stars forward Ally Cook, signed this offseason as an undrafted player, earned an assist in her NWSL debut against Utah Royals FC, setting up forward Ava Cook’s goal in the 77th minute.

SENTNOR’S SUCCESSFUL START

Top overall pick Ally Sentnor played the full match in her debut for the Utah Royals, completing 24 of 30 passes, including 10 in the final third. Sentnor led her club in a number of categories, including crosses (8), possessions won (8), chances created (4) and tackles (3).

WATCHING WASHINGTON

Five rookies made their professional debuts for the Washington Spirit in Week 1, including three starters. Fifth overall pick Hal Hershfelt played the full match, completing 48 of her 54 passes, while third overall pick Croix Bethune played over 100 minutes and recorded six possessions won.

KENNEDY VS. KING

The last matchup of the week gave fans a good look at Bay FC’s Savy King, the second overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, and Angel City FC’s 17-year-old forward Kennedy Fuller. Despite signing with Angel City less than a month ago, Fuller earned the start in her debut for Becki Tweed, registering two shots on target while completing more than 79% of her passes and recording five possessions won. King looked sharp in her professional debut, completing 15 passes, including seven in the final third, while recording a team-high four tackles.
