Nérilia Mondésir became the first Haitian to score in the NWSL. She is also the 31st international player to score their first goal in an NWSL competition in 2024.

Chawinga became the first player to score against all opponents in a single NWSL season with 10+ teams when she scored against San Diego.

The Current scored 4 goals to bring their season total to 54, tying the record for most goals scored by one team in a single season. The record was previously set by North Carolina Courage in 2019.

NWSL veterans Kelley O’Hara, Merritt Mathias, and Desiree Scott announced their retirements, leaving a lasting legacy on the league and sport. All played in the first NWSL season in 2013, with Mathias and Scott featuring in the inaugural game.

Leroux netted her 48th career goal, tying with Christen Press as the eighth leading scorer in NWSL regular-season history.

Heather Stainbrook scored her first pro goal, becoming the sixth Spirit rookie to score this season. All six Washington Spirit rookies have now found the back of the net this season.

Campbell made 3 saves for Houston in her 150th start, setting a new single season record of 113 saves. She is the first goalkeeper to play 150 games with a single club.

Dahlkemper delivered the late game-winner for Bay FC in front of her hometown crowd, scoring against her former club North Carolina for the first time. The goal was her second goal for the club and keeps Bay FC in playoff contention.

Flint scored the game-winning goal in the 88th minute against the Portland Thorns to keep Louisville’s playoff dreams alive. Racing has now gone 3 straight games without losing to the Thorns.

Gotham FC handed league leaders Orlando Pride a 3-1 defeat, the first team to score three against them this season. Sam Hiatt netted her first for the club, while Rose Lavelle and Ella Stevens each bagged their 7th of 2024.

Claudia Zornoza found the back of the net for the Utah Royals in their draw with Angel City FC, marking the team's 8th goal from outside of the box. It was also her birthday.
