The 2025 NWSL Playoffs officially kick off this Friday, but before we get into postseason mode, it’s time to reflect on the major milestones from the 2025 regular season. Records were broken (in some cases, obliterated), streaks reached their peaks, and Ironwomen did their thing.

After weeks of swapping the lead with Gotham’s Esther Gonzalez, Temwa Chawinga ultimately finished atop the Golden Boot race – again – with 15 goals.

Chawinga is now the first player since Sam Kerr to score 15 or more goals and win the Golden Boot in back-to-back years. In her first two NWSL seasons, Chawinga has cemented herself as a must-watch player with her electrifying and relentless goal scoring.

She isn’t the only representative from Kansas City with end of year accolades, however. Brazilian goalkeeper Lorena was as near to perfect in her debut season as any keeper has ever been. The NWSL newcomer conceded just 13 goals and went a whopping 690 consecutive minutes without conceding a goal.

As for assists, San Diego’s Delphine Cascarino and Kansas City’s Izzy Rodriguez led the league with six apiece.

There is a class of players that are in a league of their own: Ironwomen. That’s an athlete who played every minute of every game this season.

The Courage’s Kaleigh Kurtz completed her fourth consecutive Ironwoman season, hitting a milestone few in the game have accomplished: playing 10,000 minutes straight. Kurtz also broke Sam Staab’s record for consecutive regular season starts.

Bay FC saw the club’s first-ever Ironwoman in Caprice Dydasco. Seattle’s Claudia Dickey, Chicago’s Taylor Malham, and Utah’s Kate Del Fava also earned Ironwoman status this season.

Dickey was the only goalkeeper to play every game this year, and she led the league with 88 saves to prove it.

Scoring was at an all-time high around the league. A total of 484 goals found the back of the net, setting a new record by just one goal from the previous high in 2024.

The No. 1 Kansas City Current raised the bar this season, smashing records left and right.

Fastest team to reach 50 points – 20 games

Most points in one season – 65

Most wins in a season – 21

Most home wins – 11

Most Road wins – 10

Shutouts in one season – 16

Consecutive minutes without conceding a goal – 870 minutes

Consecutive clean sheets – 9

Home clean sheets in a season – 8

Fewest goals conceded in a season – 13

The only new regular season club record that Kansas City didn’t set was for converted PKs. The Portland Thorns scored seven goals on PKs this season to set a new single season penalty kick goals record.

Most career regular-season assists: Sofia Huerta, Seattle Reign (32)

Career goals by a teenager: Olivia Moultrie, Portland Thorns (14)

Youngest player to score an NWSL goal: KK Ream, Utah Royals

Youngest player to score an NWSL hat trick: Manaka Matsukubo, North Carolina Courage

Oldest player to score off the bench: Jess Fishlock, Seattle Reign

Oldest player to score a PK goal: Marta, Orlando Pride

Penalty saves in a single game: Jordyn Bloomer, Racing Louisville (2)
