SAN DIEGO (November 7, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the full slate of events surrounding the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, in San Diego, California. In addition to the league’s primetime Championship match on Saturday, November 11, the NWSL, its partners and fans will celebrate the culmination of a year marked by historic attendance figures and the most competitive regular season table in league history.

SAN DIEGO (November 7, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the full slate of events surrounding the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, in San Diego, California. In addition to the league’s primetime Championship match on Saturday, November 11, the NWSL, its partners and fans will celebrate the culmination of a year marked by historic attendance figures and the most competitive regular season table in league history.

Friday, November 10

Building on the success of last year’s Score More for Title IX summit, this season’s NWSL Diversity, Equity and Inclusion summit: Pathways to the Pitch and Beyond, opens Friday’s slate of activations. Sponsored by NWSL partners Ally, Delta, Mastercard and Nationwide, the summit will focus on expanding current pathways for youth players in underserved communities and broadening opportunities for careers within the game of soccer, the broader sports industry and beyond. Hosted by Emmy award-winning journalist Suzanne Rico, Pathways to the Pitch and Beyond will feature a variety of panelists and speakers including:

Karina LeBlanc, General Manager, Portland Thorns FC

Michelle Alozie, Forward, Houston Dash

Yolanda Thomas, Assistant Coach, Orlando Pride

Ramon Jones, Executive and Chief Marketing Officer, Nationwide

Mick Muhlfriedel, President, Downtown LA Soccer Club

Tatjana Haenni, Chief Sporting Director, National Women’s Soccer League

Brad Rothenberg, Founder, Access U

Nayelli Barahona, Assistant Coach, Downtown LA Soccer Club

Meghann Burke, Executive Director, NWSL Players Association

Matt Dubin, Co-Founder and Head of Client Partnerships, The Venn Collective

Casey U’Ren, Vice President of External Relations, Positive Coaching Alliance

Meghan O’Donnell, Founder, empowHERed

Samantha Ward, Founder, empowHERed

An invitation is required to attend Pathways to the Pitch and Beyond. Nationwide, who recently renewed its agreement as the NWSL’s insurance partner and presenting sponsor of the Community Impact Award, has once again teamed up with the league to support the local community during Championship week. This year, the NWSL and Nationwide are promoting the Animal Pad, a non-profit, volunteer-run dog rescue specializing in rescuing animals from high-kill shelters throughout Southern California and Mexico. As part of the activation, 10 Nationwide Community Impact Program ambassadors will join representatives from Nationwide and the NWSL on a tour of the Animal Pad’s shelter and raise awareness of the organization’s mission to provide all dogs with a home. In addition, the NWSL and Nationwide will host an adoption fair with available dogs from the Animal Pad during the league’s third annual Fan Fest on Championship matchday. For more information on the Animal Pad and how to support the organization, please visit theanimalpad.org. Kicking off at 4 p.m. at Surf Sports Park in Del Mar, the NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, will pit two teams comprised of NWSL stars against each other in a series of skills competitions, including Player Shootouts (on a goalie representing each team), 2-on-2 Tabletop Soccer, and the Crossbar Challenge. The winning team will be awarded a $25,000 prize from CarMax to be split among that team’s players. The NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, is free and open to the public, and fans will have the chance to meet participating players following the event. Rounding out the day on Friday, the Just Women’s Sports NWSL Championship Party returns for its second year, bringing together the biggest names in women’s soccer in San Diego’s historic Little Italy neighborhood. An invitation is required to attend the Just Women’s Sports NWSL Championship Party.

Saturday, November 11

The 2023 NWSL Championship marks the return of the league’s annual Fan Fest, where fans are invited to gather on the north and south lawns of Snapdragon Stadium on Saturday, November 11, for a pre-game event featuring a free live musical performance hosted by Adobe, featuring singer-songwriter, Bishop Briggs. Visit the Adobe booth to learn more about the Adobe x NWSL Creator Class, snap a photo in a re-imagined photobooth and grab giveaways to stand out from the crowd. Fan Fest doors open at 2 p.m., The Adobe Stage Bishop Briggs performance will take place from 3pm-3:45 p.m. and Fan Fest will close ahead of kickoff at 5 p.m. Fans can also enjoy food, a beer garden, interactive games and crafts presented by NWSL partners, as well as the Animal Pad Adoption Fair and player signings. Fan Fest will also offer fans a first glimpse of the new and improved NWSL Championship trophy that was redesigned as part of a new partnership with Tiffany & Co. Further details regarding Fan Fest can be found here. Coverage of the Championship will air on the CBS Television Network and stream live on Paramount+, while fans tuning in internationally can stream the contest for free on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com. Additional pre-match coverage details will be announced today. Rosemarie, a rising R&B singer from Los Angeles known for her evocative lyrics and arresting vocals, will perform the national anthem at the soccer match this Saturday. Blending her Dominican and Puerto Rican roots into her unique, emotive sound, Rosemarie has collaborated with artists like Roddy Ricch and Juvenile and has gained recognition throughout the music industry as she continues to push the boundaries of R&B. For more information and to buy tickets for the championship match, set for an 8 p.m. ET kickoff at Snapdragon Stadium, please click here.
