NEW YORK (November 7, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of October/November by the NWSL Media Association. Headlined by Player of the Month Manaka Matsukubo, nine teams are represented in the league’s Top 11.

GK – Mackenzie Arnold (POR): Arnold conceded just two goals in the last five games of the season, including back-to-back shutouts.

D – Sofia Huerta (SEA): Huerta led the Seattle defense that allowed just three goals in the month and her game-winning PK against Utah clinched the club’s playoff spot.

D – Izzy Rodriguez (KC): Rodriguez’s 25 crosses is tied for third in the league and her 10 interceptions are fourth for October/November.

D – Janine Sonis (LOU): Sonis had a league-leading 32 crosses for October/November, and she earned two goal contributions.

D – Sam Staab (CHI): Staab played every minute and created three chances on set plays, leading the club.

M – Rose Lavelle (GFC): Lavelle played all but one minute in the last five games of the season and scored two goals, including a late-game equalizer against Racing.

M – Manaka Matsukubo (NC): Manaka became the youngest player to score a hat trick and to score 10 goals in a season.

M – Olivia Moultrie (POR): Moultrie played every minute in October and scored four goals, doubling her season total.

F – Dudinha (SD): Dudinha scored four of her five regular season goals in October, including a brace against Chicago.

F – Emma Sears (LOU): Sears scored her first career brace and earned an assist.

F – Mina Tanaka (UTA): Tanaka scored three goals, including her first NWSL brace.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis.
