Still waiting on your first NWSL goal? Get in line. Week 11 saw six players open their pro accounts including a stoppage-time game-winner. With international duty in the rearview, teams are back in rhythm as the first half of the season heads toward the summer break. For clubs at the bottom, there’s a month left to flip the script. For those at the top, now’s not the time to ease off the gas. Here’s everything you might’ve missed in a goal-filled Week 11.

Racing Louisville continued its rise up the table with a dramatic 3-2 home win over Utah after an hour long weather delay. The Royals opened the scoring first with Brecken Mozingo’s third goal in three games. Emma Sears responded for Racing soon after and not much later, Ellie Jean gave them the lead, scoring her first-ever pro goal. Utah equalized again five minutes later but a red card to Ana Tejada in the 74th minute tilted momentum. In the 85th, Courtney Petersen’s cross found the rookie Sara Weber, who headed in her first professional goal to seal Racing’s fourth win in five matches. The result lifted Louisville to fifth place in the standings and extended its unbeaten run to five of the last six.

Seattle Reign earned a hard-fought road win in San Diego, breaking the Wave’s six-match unbeaten streak behind a pair of second-half goals. Midfielder rookie Sally Menti opened the scoring with a curling strike from distance in the 67th minute, her first pro goal, before Delphine Cascarino equalized for the Wave with a headed finish off a María Sánchez corner. Cascarino remained dangerous, forcing goalkeeper Claudia Dickey to make multiple saves and thank the post for saving a shot, but the dagger came in the 87th minute, when sophomore Emeri Adames finished a counterattack with a composed strike to secure all three points for the visitors.

Kansas City Current remained atop the table with a fast start and resilient finish in a 2-1 win over Gotham FC. Michelle Cooper scored in the third minute, assisted by Temwa Chawinga, then acted as playmaker for Chawinga’s goal less than 10 minutes later as thanks. It was Chawinga’s seventh goal of 2025, vaulting her to the top of the Golden Boot race with assists as the tiebreaker. Gotham pulled one back deep into stoppage time as consolation thanks to Rose Lavelle—making her season debut-–forcing an own goal but they couldn’t find an equalizer. With the win, Kansas City extended its unbeaten streak and remains perfect against Gotham in all competitions.

Orlando found another moment of magic in their title-defending season to defeat the Houston Dash 1-0 at home in front of their fans. Sophomore midfielder Cori Dyke netted the game-winner in the ninth minute of stoppage time, her first professional goal, off a loose ball in the box. It was Orlando’s third stoppage-time goal this season and kept them still within distance of Kansas City on the standings. It was also goalkeeper Anna Moorhouse’s fourth clean sheet of the year.

Bay FC handed the Thorns their first loss since April 18 with a 1-0 victory at PayPal Park, led by a standout defensive effort and a first-half strike from Alyssa Malonson. The defender scored her first professional goal in the 39th minute after combining with Penelope Hocking, who now has goal contributions in four games (three goals and an assist). Bay FC is now unbeaten at home in their last three games.

Angel City and the Stars played to a 2-2 draw in a Saturday night NWSL After Dark nailbiter. Kennedy Fuller opened the scoring for the hosts in the 30th minute, but Chicago forward Nádia Gomes leveled for Chicago shortly after halftime. Ally Schlegel gave Chicago the lead in the 66th minute with a long-range effort but Vignola equalized in the 80th, smashing in a rebound to cap a strong individual performance. Both sides had late chances, including a Stars shot off the post in stoppage time, but the draw saw Angel City halt a two-game losing streak and gave Chicago a morale boost for being able to tussle in one of the loudest atmospheres in the league.

Washington returned home and delivered a commanding 3-1 win over the Courage in Sunday’s lone NWSL game. Brittany Ratcliffe assisted Courtney Brown’s opener in the 24th minute before scoring herself just three minutes later, earning herself a Player of the Week in the process. North Carolina answered when Manaka Matsukubo chipped goalkeeper Aubrey Kingsbury, but the Spirit came back roaring in the second half. Gift Monday scored her fourth goal of the season, diving to head it in to add some flair, all but putting the game out of reach for the visitors. With the win, Washington are now level with Orlando for second place and are unbeaten in four games.
