Week 5 is a short one, but the NWSL is packing a punch over the course of two days. A full Friday night tripleheader brings the heat with the latest chapter of the Cascadia Rivalry in Seattle, a classic East Coast versus West Coast match in LA, and two motivated squads squaring off in Utah. Saturday’s slate is just as loaded, with four more matches including must-watch games in Orlando and Kansas City, where history might be made in either city — both the Kansas City Current and Orlando Pride have a shot to become the first teams in league history to start a season 5-0-0. Here’s what to watch for!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: NWSL+

Friday night’s showdown in Sandy features two young, evolving squads aiming to build consistency early in the season. Utah Royals FC return home still searching for their first win, leaning on standout sophomoreAlly Sentnor and the creativity of Claudia Zornoza to spark the attack. Chicago, meanwhile, is riding high after a much needed win against Bay FC, where Ludmila’s brace and Jameese Joseph’s two assists powered a breakout performance. The Stars lead the league in all-time road wins, and veteran goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher just became the NWSL’s all-time leader in keeper victories. Expect a tightly contested battle between two clubs with something to prove to start off the weekend.

How to watch: Prime Video

The Cascadia Rivalry returns to Lumen Field on Friday night as Seattle Reign FC host the Portland Thorns, a storied NWSL rivalry that has seen 41 different matches across all competitions. As of this season, the series between two of the league’s oldest clubs sits razor-close—Seattle with 13 regular season wins, Portland with 11, and 7 draws. Portland is riding momentum from their first win of the season, where Reilyn Turner’s early strike and Bella Bixby’s 25th career shutout in her first match back from maternity leave sealed the win. Meanwhile, the Reign are entering the match after a close loss last weekend against table leaders Orlando Pride. With prolific goal scorer Lynn Biyendolo officially debuted and seeing minutes, their fortunes are sure to improve. Expect fireworks as the league’s oldest rivalry unfolds on primetime, with both teams eyeing a statement result.

How to watch: NWSL+

Angel City FC returns home after riding a four-game unbeaten streak and a wave of attacking momentum after a 3–1 road win in Houston. Alyssa Thompson continues to dazzle, now with 10 career regular-season goals and 10 assists before her 21st birthday, while rookie duo Riley Tiernan and Macey Hodge have stepped up in big moments, having scored in the last match with Tiernan also netting a goal last time they were home. Gotham FC arrives in Los Angeles fresh off their first win of the season, a 3–1 victory powered by a six-minute brace from Esther González and a first professional goal from the rookie Lilly Reale. Of note, this will be Reale’s first return to Los Angeles, where she had a prolific career for UCLA. With Midge Purce back on the pitch and Brazilian star Geyse recently added to the roster, Gotham’s attack is beginning to click. Expect a high-tempo clash between two teams who are hitting their stride at the same time.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+

It’s NWSL After Brunch time as Racing Louisville returns to Lynn Family Stadium on Saturday to face a retooling but talented San Diego Wave side in an early afternoon clash. Louisville is unbeaten at home so far in 2025 and continues to lean on standout performances from Emma Sears, who has scored both of their goals this season. San Diego, meanwhile, looks to bounce back after consecutive losses and will rely on its new-look attack, featuring German international Gia Corley and Nigerian international Chiamaka Okwuchukwu, both of whom have made immediate impacts for the Wave this season. It’s the perfect match to settle in for an action-packed Saturday!

How to watch: ION

It’s a 2024 NWSL Championship rematch between two of the NWSL’s hottest teams on Saturday as the undefeated Pride host a surging Spirit side in a must-watch showdown. The Pride are off to their best start in club history at 4–0–0, the fourth team in NWSL history to ever start a season so perfectly, and enter the match riding a 17-game regular season home unbeaten streak—tied for the third-longest in league history. Barbra Banda and Marta continue to lead the way, with Banda tied for the team lead in goals and Marta sitting one assist shy of becoming just the third player to record 40 goals and 20 assists with one club. Washington arrives with momentum of its own after a dominant Week 4 win at Louisville, where Leicy Santos and Ashley Hatch combined for two highlight-reel goals. Hatch now has four goals in four games and leads the Golden Boot race. With two elite goalkeepers in Anna Moorhouse and Aubrey Kingsbury possibly making the difference for their squads, expect a tightly contested battle in a must-watch match.

How to watch: NWSL+

The North Carolina Courage welcome Bay FC to Cary on Saturday evening with the Courage still searching for their first win of 2025 but continue to rely on their trademark possession and midfield control, with Denise O’Sullivan leading the league in tackles won and Jaedyn Shaw sparking the attack but still looking for her first goal for the Courage. Meanwhile, Bay FC enters the match looking to bounce back after a narrow home loss to Chicago despite controlling the second half. Caroline Conti recently opened her pro account with a penalty, and rookie Taylor Huff leads the league in corners taken and is the only rookie to have played every minute of the season so far. With Casey Murphy on the brink of 300 saves and Bay goalkeeper Jordan Silkowitz fresh off a Save of the Week honor, expect a close game between two teams desparate to reverse course from recent losses.

How to watch: ION

Kansas City returns to their beloved CPKC Stadium on Saturday night riding an eight-game regular-season win streak—tied with the Orlando Pride for the longest in NWSL history—and looking to break the record with a ninth straight victory. Led by Debinha, who scored her milestone 50th regular-season career goal last week, and Lo’eau LaBonta, fresh off her 11th converted PK, the Current have looked dominant on both sides of the ball, not conceding since Week 1. Houston, meanwhile, has shown flashes of quality this season behind the ever-reliable Jane Campbell in goal and dynamic playmakers like Diana Ordóñez and Bárbara Olivieri. With Campbell just one clean sheet away from becoming the second keeper in league history with 40 for a single club, the Dash defense will need to be sharp against the NWSL’s hottest attack.
