Two NWSL and U.S. Women’s National Team standouts, Alyssa Naeher and Naomi Girma, were named to The Best FIFA Women’s 11 for 2024, a reflection of their extraordinary contributions to both club and country this year. These awards were voted for by national team coaches and captains, as well as expert media members and fans.

Alyssa Naeher, 36, was instrumental in the USWNT’s gold medal-winning campaign at the 2024 Paris Olympics, allowing just two goals in six matches, including shutouts in the semifinal against Germany and the final against Brazil. Her heroic kick-save in the semifinal's closing minutes and her fingertip save in the final will remain two defining moments in U.S. Soccer history. Naeher also helped lead the Chicago Red Stars to a return to the NWSL Playoffs and celebrated 150 regular season NWSL appearances with the club, the first goalkeeper in league history to do so. Naeher is also the first goalkeeper to win 50 matches with one club, first goalkeeper to play 15,000 minutes, and holds the NWSL record for most saves by a goalkeeper.

At just 24 years old, Naomi Girma has established herself as one of the world’s elite defenders. Named to The Best FIFA Women’s 11 at defender, Girma was a cornerstone of the USWNT’s defensive unit that conceded only 12 goals across 18 matches in 2024. She was the only U.S. field player to play every minute of the Olympic tournament, leading the defense to a gold medal. Girma also shined in the NWSL for the San Diego Wave, earning a spot on the NWSL Best XI Second Team after logging 1,715 minutes in 20 matches. Her remarkable performances earned her recognition as the no. 2 player in the world on ESPN FC’s Top 50 Women’s Players of 2024.

Naeher was also named The Best FIFA Women’s Goalkeeper, the first U.S. goalkeeper–male or female–to ever win the award, a fitting capstone on a prestigious career. Naeher announced her international retirement in November and played her final matches against England and the Netherlands, cementing her legacy as one of the greatest goalkeepers in U.S. history. She will continue to play for the Chicago Red Stars, recently having signed a one-year renewal through 2025.

Brazilian icon Marta added another jewel to her illustrious 2024 by claiming the inaugural FIFA Marta Award—an honor named after the legendary forward herself. Celebrating the best goal of the year in women’s soccer, the award was fittingly won by Marta for her stunning strike against Jamaica in a June international friendly. The goal, a masterclass in skill and precision, not only captivated fans worldwide but also further solidified Marta’s status as one of the greatest players in the history of the sport.
