We’re 10 matchweeks in and already so much has happened across the league. There have been big returns, major milestones, breakout performances, returning stars, and new faces.

Here are the biggest storylines for each club.

After collapsing on the pitch from a cardiac event during a match last season, defender Savy King made her emotional and triumphant return to the pitch in Angel City’s 2026 season opener. She was subbed on in the 63rd minute to the home crowd at BMO Stadium chanting her name.

After the match, King said, "The last 10 months have been crazy for me. A lot of hard work. A lot of perseverance. A lot of blood, sweat and tears that people didn't see. But I felt as ready as I would ever be in that moment, and I didn't want to let that fear and me being afraid to play again stop me from what I wanted to do."

Bay FC

Jordan Silkowitz has become a standout keeper in the NWSL. She’s the league leader in average saves per 90 minutes and third in total saves for the season.She’s a fan favorite in the Bay Area, and in such an unpredictable league, having a dependable goalkeeper like Silkowitz is worth its weight in gold.

Boston Legacy FC

This year, professional women’s soccer returned to Boston for the first time since 2017, ushering in a new era for the sport in New England. The Legacy’s home opener against Gotham FC at Gillette Stadium drew 30,207 fans, the largest crowd ever for an expansion club’s home debut at the time – more on that later.

In May, the club made more history by bringing professional women’s soccer to Rhode Island for the first time ever with a match at Centreville Bank Stadium in Pawtucket. In just a few months, the Legacy have already begun building on – and expanding – the region’s rich women’s soccer history.

Chicago Stars FC

Stars fans rejoiced when forward Mallory Swanson returned from maternity leave on May 16, and it was made sweeter when she scored the game-winner against Bay FC in her second match back. That win snapped Chicago’s four-game winless streak. With Swanson back, all three members of the gold-medal winning “Triple Espresso” are back playing soccer since their Olympic gold medal match in 2024.

Denver Summit FC

An expansion team always wants to make a statement their first year, and Denver Summit certainly has. With a record 63,004 people attending their home opener, the Denver Summit certainly has. The attendance smashed the previous NWSL single game attendance record by 23,000.

Their first home win cemented the importance of their attacking trio of Melissa Kössler, Janine Sonis, and Tash Flint. They’ve quickly become one of the most well-oiled attacking machines in the NWSL, Denver has tied San Diego for most goals scored in an expansion team’s first ten matches (16). Combine this trio with club assist leader Yazmeen Ryan, and Denver’s dynamic attack is off to a great start this season.

Gotham FC

Gotham’s defensive force field has once again proven to be their secret to success this season. They’re the league leaders in shutouts with eight, meaning they’ve kept a clean sheet for nearly every match this season. They’ve also allowed the fewest goals in the league. Goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger, though out with an injury in the final game before the break, has been steady all season. Along with her stalwart backline made up of Jess Carter, Tierna Davidson (who recently notched her first career assist), Jaelin Howell, and new signing Guro Reiten, Gotham’s ability to lock it down has given them a huge boost this season.

Houston Dash

Houston had a hot start to the season in large part due to their young players: Kiki Van Zanten, Kat Rader, Maggie Graham, and Kate Faasse. These players alone have contributed 12 of the team’s 14 goals so far. Van Zanten and Rader lead the team in scoring with four goals each. Sophomore Maggie Graham has three goals and an assist, while rookie Kate Faasse has a goal and two assists.

Kansas City Current

The Kansas City Current were off to a slow start to the season, winning just one in their first four matches – and then back-to-back MVP and Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga came back from injury. After 168 days, Chawinga returned to the pitch, getting an assist on a game-tying goal against Gotham FC only 40 minutes into her first match back. Since Chawinga has returned, the Current have won five out of their seven most recent matches. Needless to say, the Current are rolling with Chawinga back.

North Carolina Courage

The killer combo of Ashley Sanchez, Manaka Matsukubo, and Evelyn Ijeh have scored 15 out of the Courage’s 17 goals this season. The trio began to truly click in the Courage’s 4-0 win over Chicago on May 16, where all three were on the scoresheet. Since then, the Courage haven’t lost a game.

Orlando Pride

After two years in contention for the Golden Boot race, striker Barbra Banda is the runaway leader for the first part of the season. This fact is made even more impressive because Banda was out for over half the 2025 season with a season-ending injury. Upon her return this season, Banda didn’t miss a beat, scoring 11 goals in 12 matches for Orlando.

Portland Thorns FC

The stars of the USWNT who call Portland home have been shining so far this season. Sophia Wilson returned from maternity leave and picked back up where she left off, scoring a club-leading five goals this season. The 20-year-old veteran Olivia Moultrie also has five goals and four assists. Portland’s exciting offense is flying high in large part due to these two.

Racing Louisville FC

Emma Sears is having another great season for Louisville. She leads the team in total goal contributions with two goals and three assists. Not only can Sears score goals, she has the vision to set up others too. Louisville fans have a lot to look forward to with Sears at the helm of the attack.

San Diego Wave FC

Young players are the reason San Diego sits atop the table going into the break. All three of the Wave’s top scorers are under 25-years old: Dudinha, Trinity Byars, and Lia Godfrey. Byars made her first professional start this season and Godfrey is quickly becoming a candidate for Rookie of the Year.

Seattle Reign FC

Claudia Dickey has already engraved her name into Seattle Reign history this season. She now has the most career shutouts and saves in club history, breaking the shutout record held by Hope Solo and Phallon Tullis-Joyce and the save record held by Solo.

Utah Royals

The Utah Royals finished the 2025 NWSL season in 12th place, but there were glimpses of what the team could be at the end of the year. Before the summer break, Utah put the league on notice with a 10-match unbeaten run, fueled in large part by the attacking partnership of Cloé Lacasse and Mina Tanaka, who have combined for nearly half of the club’s goals this season. Add in Kiana Palacios, who enters the break after scoring in back-to-back matches, and stalwart defender Kate Del Fava – the only player to appear in every match for Utah since arriving in 2024 – and the Royals are looking every bit worthy of their name in 2026.

Washington Spirit

Washington were winless through their first four matches, but when they hit the road to face Bay FC, the team fell in love with a plastic coyote (designed to keep birds off the field) at the training facility in San Jose. After notching their first win of the season, Spirit President of Soccer Operations Haley Carter bought the team a plastic coyote of their own. The team named it José, and since his adoption, the team won five out of their last six NWSL matches. Only time will tell if José will continue to bring good luck, but Spirit fans love him as much as the players do.
