With only a few weeks left in the regular season, every game matters – especially for teams trying to secure a place in the top eight. It’s a tale of two seasons, with the Pride slipping from second place to seventh and the Courage trying to claw their way out of ninth place.

Here are five reasons you’re not going to want to miss this one.

You can watch the Orlando Pride host the North Carolina Courage on Friday, Sept. 19 at 8 p.m. ET on Prime Video.

HOME CROWD ADVANTAGE

Orlando is tracking for a possible sellout on Friday night, and because it’s 90s night, you’re going to Wannabe tuned in. Fans are set to pack the stands in a full 90s Fantasy, wearing their best platform shoes, plaid shirts, spaghetti straps, and bright accessories. A raucous stadium makes all the difference, especially as a team is trying to turn it around. We all know Crowds Rule Everything Around Matches. (Reader: Let us have this, please.)

With No Scrubs allowed, fans will go home thinking It Was a Good Day.

PRIDE BOUNCING BACK

The defending champions aren’t chasing waterfalls this weekend, they’re chasing wins, but the Courage are hoping to play Heartbreaker on the road. The Pride have yet to win since returning from summer break, and the Courage are fresh off an encouraging win against Angel City. It Smells Like Team Spirit on both sides of the ball.

OVALLE MAGIC

Fresh off her first start and assist, Jacquie Ovalle is prepared to show NWSL fans why the hype over her arrival is real. She just has that Ex-Factor. As “The Magician” gets used to the NWSL, it’s only a matter of time before she breaks into her All Star ways.

KALEIGH KURTZ

It’s been a record year for the Courage’s Kaleigh Kurtz. She set a new record for most consecutive appearances (108) last week and broke the record for most consecutive starts with her 107th in Week 20, a streak that is still active. Don’t Speak too soon, but this North Carolina ironwoman is showing no signs of slowing down.

LUANA

After an emotional return to the pitch, Luana is starting to build up minutes. She played a full half in Orlando’s CONCACAF match on Sept. 16, her most since navigating treatment for Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. Watching Luana come back goes beyond team allegiances. Soccer fans everywhere will be saying, “There She Goes,” as she gets back into the rhythm.
