NEW YORK (August 3, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today that Angel City FC midfielder Savannah McCaskill has been named the Player of the Month, presented by EA SPORTS, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

NEW YORK (August 3, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today that Angel City FC midfielder Savannah McCaskill has been named the Player of the Month, presented by EA SPORTS, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

The 27-year-old midfielder scored three goals across three matches this month, bringing her season total up to four across all competitions. Angel City went 2-0-1 in July, picking up a scoreless draw against NJ/NY Gotham FC and wins against the North Carolina Courage and Portland Thorns FC, both with a final score of 2-1. Angel City has not lost a match when McCaskill has found the scoresheet this season. McCaskill’s first goal of the month came 18 minutes into Angel City’s match against the North Carolina Courage on July 9, scoring a game-tying tally to help the club to an eventual 2-1 win. In Angel City’s next game, a UKG NWSL Challenge Cup matchup against the Thorns, McCaskill recorded her second career brace, scoring twice in 55 minutes to lead her team to a 2-1 victory. The Chapin, South Carolina native’s two-goal performance marked Angel City’s first-ever brace in tournament play and just the second brace for the club in any NWSL competition. Thanks to a strong scoring month, McCaskill is now Angel City’s all-time goals leader in the Challenge Cup (3), regular season (9) and all competitions (12). The NWSL Player of the Month presented by EA Sports is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Votes are based on player performances from both regular season play and the 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup.
