After a matchweek of goals galore, teen-to-teen scoring, and heroic returns, Matchweek 16 is already giving us. While the North Carolina Courage left Denver with a 2-0 win over the Summit on Wednesday night, the weekend’s slate features friendly competition between neighbors on the table.

Get your popcorn ready as we take a look at this week’s matches.

Orlando Pride vs. Racing Louisville - Friday, August 7 | 7:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Gotham FC vs. San Diego Wave - Friday, August 7 | 8:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Denver Summit vs. Utah Royals - Saturday, August 8 | 4:00 PM ET (ION)

Washington Spirit vs. North Carolina Courage - Saturday, August 8 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

Houston Dash vs. Kansas City Current - Saturday, August 8 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

Boston Legacy vs. Portland Thorns FC - Sunday, August 9 | 4:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Chicago Stars vs. Bay FC - Sunday, August 9 | 7:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Seattle Reign vs. Angel City - Sunday, August 9 | 9:00 PM ET (ESPN, ESPN app)

If Gotham loses against San Diego and Washington wins over North Carolina, the Spirit will once again take the top of the table.

If Washington loses against North Carolina and Utah gets the win over Denver by more than one goal, Utah will move into second place due to a larger goal differential.

If Seattle wins over Angel City, the Reign will knock Angel City out of playoff position and enter the playoff spots themselves.

Why it matters: Four points separate the top three teams. Any win or loss can be seismic when the margins are that slim. This is also true of the playoff spots. Four clubs are currently tied for the last playoff slot. Even one point in a draw could be the difference maker between seeing the post-season and having to wait another year to prove yourselves.

Ashley Sanchez and Trinity Rodman were a menace to opposing defenses as Washington Spirit teammates. Affectionately known as "Sandman" (a play on their last names), the real life besties will now go head-to-head as two of the league's leading scorers.

The North Carolina Courage will head to Audi Field having won their last two matches. Their 5-0 win over the Orlando Pride is the biggest win-margain of the season, and reset the club that had scored just once in their previous three matches.

The San Diego Wave, Washington Spirit, and Gotham FC are tied for most road wins this season (6). If San Diego beats Gotham, they will take the lead for most road wins since Washington is also at home this match week. Why does this matter? Points are hardest to come by on the road. Winning those matches is vital for any team looking to claim the NWSL Shield.

The Boston Legacy have been on a hot streak. The expansion side has gotten points from five out of their last six matches, putting them in the realm of playoffs. Even goalkeeper Casey Murphy contributed to the blossoming offense last weekend, notching an assist on Sammy Smith’s goal against the Denver Summit. It was the fourth-ever goalkeeper assist in league history.​

Seattle’s Jess Fishlock made her second appearance in her return from injury last week and scored a goal less than a minute after subbing on. With that goal, she is now the 10th player to reach 50 NWSL goals and only the fifth to do it with a single club. Fishlock continues to prove why she’s an NWSL legend every time she steps onto the pitch.

Former Gotham teammates Abby Smith and Mandy McGlynn find themselves in net on opposite sides of the pitch this week as Denver takes on Utah. Both have four clean sheets so far this season and are looking to make it five this weekend.

No spoilers but the NWSL plays a role in the new season of "Ted Lasso." This time Coach Lasso is heading back to Richmond to coach a new women's club.
