▶️ Watch Christen Press and Ali Riley Retirement Ceremony now.

It’s the end of an era in L.A.

Angel City’s first-ever captain Ali Riley announced Tuesday morning she would be retiring from the game at the end of the 2025 season.

“While I certainly experienced my share of heartbreak in my career, it will never compare to the immense love, joy, and gratitude I feel when I look back on over three decades of playing this game,” Riley wrote on Instagram. “I am so proud to be able to say goodbye on my own terms, in my hometown, and know for certain that I am giving everything I have left to the people around me and the sport that shaped me.”

Being able to walk away from soccer on her own terms isn’t something that was guaranteed. Riley was put on the Season-Ending Injury list in the middle of the 2024 season, sidelining her for the 2024 Olympics and most of the 2025 NWSL regular season.

Riley’s career is a reflection of her as a person, leading with kindness but never letting it be mistook for weakness. It was just this summer that Riley laced up again for the first time, dressing for Angel City’s game against the Orlando Pride on August 21 in an emotional return.

“Getting myself back on the field was my singular goal after my injury last year, and I am so proud to have achieved that,” Riley said in a press release. “Being on the pitch every day, supporting my teammates, pushing my teammates, showing up in the way I know I can has been amazing. Now, as I reflect on what this game has given me these past three decades, since I started in the Palisades here in LA, I know that I have truly given my all, both physically and emotionally. As a player, I strived to be the best teammate, a positive influence in the locker room, and compete on the field every day. For my entire career, I never took a day when I got to play soccer for granted.”

Current and former teammates flooded to the comments section to show her love and support, including Kelley O’Hara, Marta, Sophia Wilson, Lynn Biyendolo, Riley Tiernan, and Alyssa Thompson.

Known for her heart, relentless passion, humor, and work ethic, Riley will leave the game better than she found it. In 2023, she captained the team that gave New Zealand its first win ever in a World Cup, but it was her actions off the field that made the biggest splash.

Riley made news when she painted her nails rainbow colors in solidarity with the LGBTQIA+ community after the “OneLove” captain armbands were banned.

“One small gesture can go so far and it was such an amazing reminder of that. Football is a game,” Riley said. “And getting knocked out sucks. But to impact people’s lives in a positive way, that’s winning.”

After playing for Stanford, Riley made her debut for FC Gold Pride in the WPS, a team that included Marta, Christine Sinclair, Kelley O’Hara, Shannon Boxx, and Tiffany Milbrett. The Gold Pride won the WPS Championship in 2010 and Riley earned Rookie of the Year honors.

Just after winning the championship, FC Gold Pride folded, and Riley, Marta, and Sinclair joined the Western New York Flash, who went on to win the 2011 WPS Championship.

After the league folded, Riley spent nearly a decade playing in Europe before landing in Orlando. In January 2022, Riley came home to Los Angeles when the Pride traded her to Angel City.

It took no time at all for Riley to endear herself to the Angel City faithful.

“Ali Riley is Angel City. Her heart, grit, and unwavering commitment to lifting everyone around her have shaped the culture of this club,” said ACFC CEO and Co-Founder Julie Uhrman. “Her impact on our team, our city, the global game and on me personally is immeasurable. Ali has shown us that leadership goes far beyond the pitch; it’s in how you care for others, how you show up, and how you lead every single day. Her love of the game, for Angel City, and for the community is undeniable. And while she may no longer be on the pitch, she will never be far from Angel City. We all need more Ali Rileys in our lives.”

With four home games left in the regular season for Angel City, Riley will surely be feeling the home crowd love she deserves.
