NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

HOME SWEET HOME

Six clubs have recorded their highest attended home opener in franchise history this season, including San Diego Wave FC, who set an NWSL home opener attendance record with 32,066 fans at Snapdragon Stadium on Saturday night. Portland Thorns FC (19,857), the Washington Spirit (11,734) and Houston Dash (8,600) also set club records for home opener attendance this weekend. Utah Royals FC (20,370) and Angel City FC (22,000) reported record sellouts last week, while the Kansas City Current (11,500) filled every seat in CPKC Stadium’s inaugural match.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

ROOKIE REPORT

Rookies lit up the NWSL in Week 2, including the first overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, Ally Sentnor. The Royals forward played every minute for the second consecutive match and scored her first professional goal, a game-winner in the 30th minute against the Courage. The Washington Spirit defeated Bay FC, extending their unbeaten streak in home openers to six games, with key contributions from top-five 2024 Draft picks Croix Bethune and Hal Hershfelt. Hershfelt tied the match in the 23rd minute with her first career goal, while Trinity Rodman tied a club record with her 11th regular season assist. Bethune recorded five shots for the Spirit, including a game-winner in the 95th minute for her first professional goal, the second-latest game-winner in Washington’s history. Racing Louisville FC forward Reilyn Turner, who earned an assist in her NWSL debut last week, came out aggressive against the Houston Dash, registering eight shots, including six on target, while recording a game-high four aerial duels won in a draw.

FOREIGN FIRSTS

The Red Stars defeated Seattle Reign FC, 2-1, at home, as three international players scored the first goal of their careers. Brazilian midfielder Julia Bianchi, who led Chicago in assists last season (5), notched the first goal of the match and her NWSL career in the 42nd minute to give her the club the lead before halftime. Reign midfielder Ji So-Yun found the back of the net in the 62nd minute, becoming the first Korean player to score in the NWSL, before German defender Maxi Rall secured the win for the Red Stars with a goal in the 68th minute. Elsewhere, Nigerian forward Asisat Oshoala, who scored her first NWSL goal last week, earned her first assist for Bay FC, finding midfielder Dorian Bailey, who scored against her former club in the 2-1 loss.

ROCKING ROYALS

The Utah Royals defeated the Courage, 2-1, to earn their first win in the club’s new era and the first under head coach Amy Rodriguez. Defender Kate Del Fava, a draft selection of the previous iteration of the Royals in 2020, struck first in the 15th minute for the club’s first goal since Rodriguez scored in the 2020 Fall Series, as team captain Paige Monaghan earned the assist. Forward Ashley Sanchez tied the match with her first goal for the Courage, but Sentnor’s first professional goal put it away for Utah, as defender Kaleigh Riehl tallied her first regular season assist.

PLAYING FOR KEEPS

Reigning Goalkeeper of the Year Jane Campbell was dominant for the Dash, recording a career-high 10 saves, including seven in the first half, against Racing Louisville, as she became the first keeper in league history to start 150 games for one club. Campbell’s opponent, Katie Lund, also a finalist for last year’s award, recorded four saves in her 50th start for Racing. Veteran keeper Alyssa Naeher allowed just one goal to Seattle Reign, earning her 50th win with the Red Stars, making her the first keeper to reach that milestone with one club.

3,000 GOALS

NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Esther scored a game-winning goal in the 72nd minute against the Thorns on Sunday night, the 3,000th regular season goal in NWSL history, as the defending Champions earned their first regular season win in Portland since 2017.

WEEK 2 MATCH RESULTS

Friday, March 22

Orlando Pride vs. Angel City FC | 1 – 1 | Match Recap Utah Royals FC vs. North Carolina Courage | 2 – 1 | Match Recap

Saturday, March 23

Chicago Red Stars vs. Seattle Reign FC | 2 – 1 | Match Recap Washington Spirit vs. Bay FC | 2 – 1 | Match Recap Houston Dash vs. Racing Louisville FC | 0 – 0 | Match Recap San Diego Wave FC vs. Kansas City Current | 1 – 2 | Match Recap

Sunday, March 24

Portland Thorns FC vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | 0 – 1 | Match Recap
