The 2024 NWSL Playoffs presented by Google Pixel kicked off in thrilling fashion last weekend, as eight teams battled it out for a coveted spot in the semifinals. By Sunday evening, just four teams remained standing, but the road to that point was filled with unforgettable goals, game-changing moments, and statement-making victories. From dramatic comebacks to standout individual performances, the quarterfinals delivered plenty of excitement.

Here are the top storylines that emerged from an action-packed quarterfinals weekend!

The Pride earned its first NWSL playoff win with a 4-1 victory over Chicago Red Stars. Haley McCutcheon scored her first playoff goal, Barbra Banda became the first international player to score a brace in all NWSL playoffs, and Marta scored the final goal on a penalty kick, setting the record as the oldest playoff goalscorer (38 years, 9 months).

2024 Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga scored her first playoff goal and the game-winner in Kansas City’s first home playoff game.

Temwa Chawinga’s goal was the 100th all-time NWSL playoff goal.

The Nigerian forward scored Bay FC’s first playoff goal in the club’s inaugural playoff match.

The sellout crowd that attended the Spirit’s quarterfinal victory against Bay FC set a record for the largest East Coast playoff crowd in NWSL playoff history. They have now won all three of their all-time home playoff games in extra time.

The Washington Spirit defender, originally a forward, scored her first playoff goal for the Spirit.

Gotham FC set a club record with 15,540 fans in attendance for its first home playoff game. Rose Lavelle scored the game-winning goal in the final minutes of regulation time, her first in the playoffs ever.

Sinclair made her 14th and final NWSL playoff appearance and her final appearance for the Portland Thorns. She’s the all-time leader for playoff appearances.

Reilyn Turner (22 years, 23 days) became the third-youngest player to score a playoff goal, behind only Trinity Rodman (19 years, 5 months, 25 days) and Erika Tymrak (22 years, 17 days). OLIVIA MOULTRIE became the youngest ever to assist a playoff goal.
