It was a big week in the NWSL that started with Gotham and the Spirit breaking records at Citi Field in Queens. We saw the returns of two greats, come-from-behind wins, and some stunning soccer.

The FIFA Men’s World Cup may have just ended, but with the NWSL, the Summer of Soccer is just getting started.

Orlando Pride 0-1 Boston Legacy

Gotham 1-0 Washington Spirit

Kansas City Current 2-2 San Diego Wave

Denver Summit 2-1 Portland Thorns

Gotham 3-2 Seattle Reign

Bay FC 3-0 North Carolina Courage

Chicago Stars 0-2 Angel City

Utah Royals 1-0 Orlando Pride

Racing Louisville 1-1 Houston Dash

Boston Legacy 1-2 Washington Spirit

Rose Lavelle scored two game-winning goals this week for Gotham.

Angel City’s Maiara Nieuhes scored in her fourth straight match.

Washington Spirit’s Trinity Rodman scored her fourth goal in as many games since the end of the summer break.

Seattle’s Maddie Mercado scored in her second straight match.

There were a trio of braces across the league:

Trinity Byars, San Diego Wave

Esther González, Gotham

Karlie Lema, Bay

Barbara Olivieri scored the game-winning goal in Orlando, her first for the Legacy. It was the first road win in club history.

Mia Fishel scored her first NWSL goal, a converted PK for the Reign.

Natalie Means scored her first NWSL goal, the game-winner for the Summit.

Karlie Lema scored her first-ever NWSL brace and Bay FC defeated the Courage 3-0 in front of Lionesses boss Sarina Wiegman

Gotham christened their new borough with a win under the lights at Citi Field. Against their rivals, the Washington Spirit, and in front of a record-breaking crowd of 42,175 fans, Rose Lavelle scored a game-winning goal. It was her bobblehead night, after all.

Sam Kerr and Lindsey Heaps made their NWSL returns, both earning assists in their first matchweek back.

Kerr made her debut in a Gotham kit during the second half of Gotham’s match at Citi Field against the Washington Spirit and earned an assist in just her second appearance . With an assist over the weekend against the Reign, Kerr is now the all-time leader in regular season goal contributions with 102. Lynn Biyendolo has 101.

In Denver, Heaps made her Summit debut in front of her hometown crowd and assisted the game-winning goal.

Gotham overcame a two-goal deficit to defeat the Seattle Reign, scoring all three goals in the 80th minute or later. Esther González scored her ninth brace with Gotham, and Rose Lavelle scored her second game-winning goal this week.

The San Diego Wave and Kansas City Current battled it out in a gritty 2-2 draw. After Trinity Byars scored early in the first half, the Current scored two second half goals to pull ahead. But it was Byars again with her third stoppage time goal of the season and her second equalizer.

It was a tale of two draws in Louisville. Kayla Fischer scored Racing’s first goal in three matches, and the club was able to hang on to the lead – until second half stoppage time. Houston rookie Kat Rader drove home her sixth goal of the season in the final moments of the match to secure her team a point. It was heartbreak for Louisville who watched what would have been just their third win of the season slip by. ​

In addition to being a neck-and-neck tactical game, the San Diego Wave and Kansas City Current match also pitted two NWSL greats of another variety: celebrations.

Trinity Byars scored the first goal of the game in the opening minutes. She and Gia Corley hit a simple but effective post at the corner flag.

After Croix Bethune’s one-touch stunner to equalize, she hit a classic “Croix Curtsy.”

Any time the Ref Cam is in action is a gift, and Gotham’s Guro Reitan – whether intentional or not – nailed the assignment.
