Alyssa Naeher became the first goalkeeper to make her 200th regular season appearance on Monday night against the Seattle Reign, but somehow that is not the most impressive stat line for Chicago’s keeper.

In the waning minutes of stoppage time, Naeher scored the equalizer – the first goal of her illustrious NWSL career.

It was the exclamation mark on the end of a thrilling comeback for the Stars. Down three goals, Ludmila kicked the scoring off for Chicago in the 73rd minute. Just five minutes later, Camryn Biegalski closed the gap to just a goal.

In a prime example of “You can’t defend a loss,” the Stars pressed the Reign defense, forcing a corner kick nine minutes into stoppage time. A Julia Grosso header was beautifully deflected by Claudia Dickey, but Chicago players were all over it, forcing a frenzy of rebounds.

In a sea of Seattle white and Chicago black kits, it was a flash of bright green that got the ball over the line.

“The mentality of the group, chaos kind of sums up our season at this point,” Naeher said in her post game interview. Her teammates heard the word chaos, and hit her with incredible comedic timing as they ran by and sprayed their water bottles on her.

“You just see the heart in that play. Everyone’s fighting, everyone’s scrapping to just get a touch on it to keep the ball alive,” Naeher continued, shaking the water off.

While this was Naeher’s first goal, it’s the third time in NWSL history that a goalkeeper scored a stoppage time equalizer.

The Stars go back to Chicago with a point and some momentum going into their matchup against the Courage on Friday. Though it’s been an uneven season in Chicago, Naeher said the locker room continues to fight for each other, and that’s a difference maker.

“You never saw any heads drop even in a moment that was frustrating,” she said. “Everyone kind of stepped up … We know the group we have on the field. We believe in each other. We believe in what we’re trying to do.”

And that, kids, is why you should never sleep on NWSL After Dark.

The Stars will host the Courage on Friday night at 8 p.m. ET on Prime Video.
