Denver Summit 0-2 North Carolina Courage​

Orlando Pride 1-3 Racing Louisville

Gotham FC 1-0 San Diego Wave

Washington Spirit 3-4 North Carolina Courage

Houston Dash 1-1 Kansas City Current

Denver Summit 2-1 Utah Royals

Boston Legacy 3-4 Portland Thorns

Chicago Stars 0-0 Bay FC

Seattle Reign 2-2 Angel City FC

Pietra Tordin became the youngest player in the history of the Portland Thorns to score a hat trick. It’s the fifth first-half hat trick in league history.

Kansas City's Debinha scored her 83rd career NWSL goal, putting her in the lead for goals scored across all NWSL competitions.

Kansas City's Croix Bethune notched her 20th career regular-season assist. Bethune is now the second-youngest (after Trinity Rodman) and second-fastest (after Tobin Heath) to reach the milestone.

Denver Summit defender Kaleigh Kurtz made her 150th regular-season appearance and is the first field player in NWSL history to start all of them. Jane Campell and Kailen Sheridan, both goalkeepers, previously achieved this feat.

Since scoring her first NWSL goal, Seattle's Mia Fishel has four goal contributions in four matches.

Louisville's Emma Sears scored a brace to lead her club to their third win in four matches. Racing's lost just one match in their last five - a 5-1 loss against the Current.

Not one but two matches ended in 4-3 scorelines in Matchweek 16. On Saturday night, North Carolina shocked Audi Field with a last-gasp winner against Washington. Evelyn Ijeh may have scored a brace and Ashley Sanchez had a goal and an assist, but it was captain Natalie Jacobs, a center back, who played hero for her team.

Then, on Sunday afternoon, Portland held their own against a determined Boston. The Thorns put away four goals in the first half - Tordin's hat trick and a Sophia Wilson goal - but Boston surged in the second half. Despite their efforts, the Thorns managed to hang on to the win, their first on the road since May 3.

With so many multi-goal games over the past two weeks, the Golden Boot race is getting tigther every match. Barbra Banda and Temwa Chawinga have both missed time on international duty at WAFCON. However, Ashley Sanchez is now only one goal away from tying Banda's 12 at the top. Below Sanchez is a four-way tie between Trinity Rodman, Chawinga, Evelyn Ijeh, and Sophia Wilson, who all sit at 9 goals. It’s truly anyone’s trophy, and the season isn’t even close to slowing down.

Houston Dash rookie Kat Rader certainly doesn’t play like one. Her penalty was the lone goal in a draw with Kansas City over the weekend, giving the Dash a crucial point against a tough opponent. Rader has scored three times over the past five matches, helping make her the highest-scoring rookie in the NWSL this season.
