Gotham fans rejoice – NWSL champion and World Cup winner Esther González is here to stay.

The club announced on Thursday that they extended the Spanish star’s contract through 2027.

González signed with Gotham in 2023 and made an immediate impact for her club. She scored the game-winning goal in their first NWSL Championship in club history in her debut season and led the club in goals in 2024 (9). Now in Week 9 in 2025, González leads the league in goals (7), including three braces and a four-game goal streak earlier this season.

She spoke with Sports Illustrated’s Jenna Tonelli about the decision to stay with Gotham and the NWSL.

“Gotham creates an environment that isn’t built on individualism, it’s built on team effort,” she said. “So whether it’s me today or tomorrow a different player in that race for the Golden Boot, that is what helps me to evolve—being part of a family working collectively to achieve the ultimate goals of the club.”

"Esther is a proven goal scorer who has made a major impact for our club," said Yael Averbuch West, the general manager and head of soccer operations for Gotham FC in a press release. "We’re excited to extend her time at Gotham FC and look forward to her continued success."

Before joining Gotham, González won the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup with Spain and broke records at Liga F club Real Madrid. In just 77 appearances, she became the club’s all-time leading scorer with 39 goals. That record held until earlier this year, when Caroline Weir earned her 40th goal.

She also won three Liga F titles and a Copa de la Reina with Real Madrid.

In addition to her success at the international level, González is hitting her stride stateside. The competitive nature and the parity of the NWSL ultimately played a part in her decision to stay with Gotham.

“My reason for agreeing that the NWSL is one of the best leagues in the world is the competitive nature of the teams—you never know what is going to happen between the top of the table and the bottom of the table,” she told Sports Illustrated. “Every match you play in, you have to prepare like it is a final. That’s the level here and caliber of players on the pitch. There are a lot of international players who are at the top of their game and want to play in the NWSL, and there’s a reason for that.”

González and her teammates will host the Wave on Friday, May 16 at 7:30 p.m. You can watch that game on NWSL+.
