Even while the NWSL is on holiday, fans still have been treated to NWSL fun during the 2025 UEFA Women’s Euro tournament. Every single day has seen record‑breaking moments, spectacular goals, captivating performances, and quite often, an NWSL player is involved.

Ten of the tournament’s group‑stage goals have come from NWSL players — a huge leap compared to only three across the last three Euros combined — and seven of the eight quarterfinal teams have at least one player from the league. Here’s how each nation’s NWSL talent made its mark.

Ana-Maria Crnogorcevic (Seattle Reign FC)

Ana-Maria Crnogorcevic has been a game changer for Switzerland with her versatility and experience, coming off the bench in every match to do what needed to be done to secure their place in the knockouts. Her composure on the ball helped steady Switzerland in tight matches, keeping them organized through a competitive group. The tournament hosts emerged in second with a win and tie, advancing to the quarterfinals for the very first time in history. Switzerland will face Spain, the World Champions, on Friday, July 18 at 3 PM ET.

Ann-Katrin Berger (Gotham FC), Kathrin Hendrich (Chicago Stars)

Ann-Katrin Berger played every single minute in goal for Germany, providing crucial saves even as her side endured a shocking defeat to Sweden. Kathrin Hendrich did not feature but added depth to the roster. Germany is through to the knockout stage with two wins and only one loss and will meet the undefeated France in a heavyweight clash on Saturday, July 19 at 3 PM ET.

Esther González (Gotham FC)

Esther González has been electric, bringing her NWSL goal-scoring ways to Europe by scoring four goals in the group stage to lead the Golden Boot race. Her opening goal against Italy came just 87 seconds in, the fastest Spain goal in Euro history, and in her third group stage game, she scored a brace to become the first Spain player to score multiple goals in a women’s Euro match. At 32, she also became Spain’s oldest goalscorer at a women’s Euro, proving age is but a number. Spain moves on to face Switzerland in the quarters on Friday, July 18 at 3 PM ET.

Sveindís Jonsdóttir (Angel City FC)

Sveindís Jonsdóttir, Angel City’s recent international signing and a name NWSL fans were excited to see join the league, etched her name in football history by scoring Iceland’s first‑ever goal at a Women’s Euro. Her finish was also the 50th goal of this tournament, a milestone moment for her country despite their early exit. They may not be advancing but they have a lot to be proud of.

Janni Thomsen (Utah Royals FC), Josefine Hasbo (Gotham FC), Isabella Obaze (Portland Thorns FC)

Janni Thomsen started for Denmark in every single one of their Euro matches, scoring a goal for her country in their final group stage match against Poland. Josefine Hasbo was deployed as an effective gamechanger and Isabella Obaze, despite not featuring for Denmark so far, added depth to the squad. Although they failed to secure a win in any of their matches, it’s valuable tournament experience for the and Denmark.

Sofia Cantore (Washington Spirit)

Sofia Cantore brought relentless energy to Italy’s attack, starting all three group games and linking play with intelligence and precision. Her presence up front helped Italy secure a crucial result to narrowly advance with a win, a tie, and a loss. They’ll face Norway in the quarterfinals on Wednesday, July 16 at 3 PM ET.

Natalia Kuikka (Chicago Stars FC)

Natalia Kuikka was a standout for Finland, playing every minute of the group stage and scoring in their final match to cap off her campaign. Finland won’t be advancing but it was a strong opportunity for Kuikka as she returns to playing after an injury delayed her season.

Hanna Lundkvist (San Diego Wave FC)

Hanna Lundkvist started two matches for Sweden, helping engineer a defense that ultimately has allowed just one goal so far in the tournament and handed Germany their largest defeat in Euro history (1-4). Sweden topped their group with three wins and will clash with reigning champions, England, on Thursday, July 17 at 3 PM ET.

Angharad James-Turner, Lily Woodham, Jess Fishlock (Seattle Reign FC)

Wales’ debut Euro campaign featured a Seattle Reign trio who started every game, the first time in tournament history three NWSL players have done so in a single game. Captain Angharad James-Turner led the midfield, Lily Woodham was a consistent starter, and Jess Fishlock made headlines by scoring Wales’ first‑ever goal in a major tournament, becoming the oldest scorer in Euro history as well. While Wales didn’t advance, they won the hearts of football fans everywhere and certainly made their mark on tournament history.
