NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

EXTENDED CAREERS

OL Reign and NJ/NY Gotham FC won their respective quarterfinal matches this weekend, extending the careers of Reign forward Megan Rapinoe and Gotham FC defender Ali Krieger, who are both in their final season. The former USWNT teammates both look to end their storied careers with their first NWSL Championship title. First, they must win in the semifinals on Sunday, November 5 as sixth-seeded Gotham FC take on No. 2 Portland Thorns FC at 7 p.m. ET at Providence Park in Portland, followed by No. 4 OL Reign versus top-seeded San Diego Wave FC at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego kicking off at 9:30 p.m. ET. Krieger will face Canadian national team and Portland Thorns captain forward Christine Sinclair, who recently announced her retirement from international play, but plans to play in the NWSL next season. The 2023 Ally NWSL Championship will air live in primetime at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11, on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+. Additional coverage details will be announced at a later date. Tickets for the match are available here. All playoff matches, including the Championship match, will stream internationally on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.

YOUTH MOVEMENT

18-year-old rookie midfielder Alyssa Thompson played 20 minutes for Angel City FC in its quarterfinal match against OL Reign, becoming just the sixth teenager and the fourth youngest player to appear in the NWSL playoffs. Angel City’s Angelina Anderson became the first rookie keeper to play in the playoffs since AD Franch started for the Western New York Flash in 2013. Anderson recorded three saves, allowing just one goal, but a shutout from second-year Reign keeper Claudia Dickey ended Angel City’s season. Dickey is the first Reign keeper to notch a clean sheet in the playoffs since Hope Solo in 2015. Gotham FC’s 2-0 win against the third-seeded North Carolina Courage was sparked by goals from 24-year-old midfielders Delanie Sheehan and Yazmeen Ryan, both in their third NWSL season. 21-year-old defender Bruninha recorded an assist on Sheehan’s goal.

NO PENALTY KICKS

With both quarterfinal matches ending in regulation, a long-standing streak for the NWSL continues, as no playoff match has gone to a penalty kick shootout since 2016. The 2016 NWSL Championship is the only game to go to a PK shootout, with the Western New York Flash, led by Lynn Williams’ one-goal-one-assist performance, defeating the Washington Spirit in penalty kicks.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

GOTHAM FC’S FIRSTS

Gotham FC’s win against North Carolina was filled with firsts for the club, most notably its first playoff victory. Delanie Sheehan’s goal in the 45th minute was the first playoff goal in club history, followed by Yazmeen Ryan’s final blow in the 91st minute to put the match out of reach for the Courage. Sheehan’s goal was also the first of her professional career, making her the fifth player to score her first NWSL goal in a playoff match, while Ryan’s tally was the first of her playoff career. North Carolina’s offense put Mandy Haught to the test, but Gotham FC’s keeper recorded five saves to earn her club’s first playoff shutout in history. Head coach Juan Carlos Amorós, who led the Houston Dash to the 2022 playoffs as the club’s interim head coach, earned his first playoff win in the 2-0 decision.

LEAVE IT TO LYNN

Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams assisted on Yazmeen Ryan’s late goal for her third career playoff assist, tying former FC Kansas City midfielder Lauren Holiday and former Western New York Flash and North Carolina Courage forward Jessica McDonald for the most all time. After playing the entire match, Williams became the second player in league history to log 1,000 playoff minutes.

LATE GAME HEROICS

Forward Veronica Latsko found the back of the net in the 87th minute to secure a 1-0 win for OL Reign on Friday, with defender Phoebe McClernon earning an assist. Latsko’s late strike marks OL Reign’s latest game-winner in its playoff history, previously held by Megan Rapinoe who scored a game winner in the 82nd minute of the 2014 semifinals against the Washington Spirit.

QUARTERFINAL MATCH RESULTS

Friday, October 20

No. 4 OL Reign vs. No. 5 Angel City FC | 1 – 0 | Match Recap

Sunday, October 22

No. 3 North Carolina Courage vs. No. 6 NJ/NY Gotham FC | 0 – 2 | Match Recap

SEMIFINAL MATCH SCHEDULE

Sunday, November 5

No. 2 Portland Thorns FC vs. No. 6 NJ/NY Gotham FC | Providence Park | 7 p.m. ET | CBS Sports Network No. 1 San Diego Wave FC vs. No. 4 OL Reign | Snapdragon Stadium | 9:30 p.m. ET | CBS Sports Network
