As far as NWSL rivalries go, it is hard to top a Cascadia Clash.

In the final match of Rivalry Weekend presented by Ally, two of the most storied clubs face off yet again. With this much history, it’s a game no NWSL fan will want to miss.

Here's why you should tune in this Sunday, Aug. 10 at 4 PM ET on CBS and Paramount+.

READ: HOW TO WATCH THE NWSL ON CBS AND PARAMOUNT+

No two clubs in NWSL history have played more head-to-head matches than Portland and Seattle. Over the course of 42 games, it is a dead split in who owns the matchup. Each team has 16 wins and 10 draws, so if there is a winner, they will regain bragging rights. Sam Hiatt described the Cascadia Clash as a sibling rivalry, and who doesn’t want a leg up on their sibling?

Seattle took home the W in the first match up of the season, but this time, they’ve got the Portland faithful to contend with. So far this season, the Thorns have defended their fortress tremendously, with four wins and three draws, having yet to lose on home turf. Seattle, on the other hand, has only given up one loss on the road so they have the opportunity to play spoiler to an undefeated homestreak.

Coming into Providence Park is a tall task for any opponent, but when it’s the Reign? Expect the crowd to be intense.

This matchup is destined to be competitive with Seattle’s stingy defense up against a fun Portland attack. The Reign don’t concede a lot of goals, averaging only 0.9 goals conceded per match, third only behind the Pride and Current. That has been the foundation of their climb up the table after a rocky start.

As for Portland, they have some really fun attacking players, who have high attacking output. They are third in the league for expected goals, and they have a lot of different weapons that they use to break down teams. Between Olivia Moultrie’s dribbling attributes, Sam Coffey’s late runs into the box as the untracked third-man runner, and Hina Sugita’s tight control between lines, they have a lot of pace in wide areas. This match up with the solid back five of Seattle will be exciting to watch.

With just seven points separating second and ninth place in the standings, it’s already a cramped race for the top of the table. Seattle and Portland are separated by just two points, sitting in fifth and sixth respectively.

Depending on how things shake out across the league for the rest of the weekend, the winner of this match could make moves in the race for postseason..

That much history means the rivalry is that much more intense. While many of the original faces of the rivalry have retired — Christine Sinclair, Megan Rapinoe, Tobin Heath – one is still fighting the good fight of being a certified hater.

As one of only a few players who has been there since the genesis of this rivalry, Jess Fishlock is a certified Portland hater. Look no further than her barrage of tweets dunking on the Rose City to see how she feels about this rivalry. As Sam Hiatt told Sam Mewis, rivalries are good for the game.

Sometimes being a hater is the best way to stoke the flames.
