If you’ve been paying attention the last few seasons, you know this matchup is personal. The Kansas City Current, last year’s semifinalists, and the Orlando Pride, the team that stopped them and went on to become the reigning NWSL Champions. Last season, every matchup was a must watch, and this season, it’s been just as competitive. The two teams have already faced off this season. The Current grabbed all three points in May after a hard-fought battle (and a Temwa Chawinga goal). This weekend, the two face off again – in the same stadium where Orlando became champions. In this Rivalries presented by Ally match, expect goals, drama, fireworks, and some on-field magic that you’re going to want to talk to your coworkers about on Monday. Don’t miss any of the fun. Tune in this Saturday, August 16th at 4PM ET on CBS and Paramount+!

When the Ballon o’Dor nominations came out last week, five NWSL players were among those selected. Three of those five will take the field on Saturday night. Orlando’s Barbra Banda and Kansas City’s Temwa Chawinga have been electric the last two seasons, playing – quite literally – some of the best soccer in the world. And with her 10th goal of the season last weekend, Chawinga overtook first place in the Golden Boot race – bumping Esther González to second thanks to her two assists – but Banda isn’t far behind. Her eight goals and an assist puts her in third with plenty of games left in the season to fight for the top spot. Putting two of the game’s most prolific scorers on the pitch together is a battle no one will want to miss.

Marta. Marta. Marta. The Brazilian phenom is the third NWSL player to earn a Ballon d’Or nomination this year, proving that more than 20 years in the game, Marta is still the greatest to ever do it. Any time she steps onto the field, Marta’s love for the game and relentless drive is unmistakable, but there’s just something special about playing against Kansas City that seems to ignite Marta a little more. Just ask anyone who saw last year's semifinal. Marta’s cheeky burst of footwork past two KC defenders and then the goalkeeper to slot home a goal went viral and lit a fire under Orlando that lasted through the final seconds of the championship match. This weekend, expect her to bring that same trademark Marta Magic.

There’s a reason this is considered a budding rivalry. Though not the typical matchup defined by proximity or long history, Orlando was a veritable thorn in the Current’s side last season. For the Current, getting the opportunity to play in the NWSL Championship on their home turf was extra motivation to go all the way. The Pride, however, stepped in to dash the dream of lifting a trophy in front of a home crowd. With Kansas City riding an eight-game winning streak heading into the weekend, Orlando has the opportunity to stop the Current from tying their own record of nine-straight wins.

As it stands, Kansas City is leading the race for the NWSL Shield by a whopping 12 points. If Orlando has any shot to close the distance – or overtake first place – this is a must-win game. While 12 points ahead of them seems far, the 12 points behind them are on their tails. The same point differential from first to second place is the same difference between second and 12th. Simply put, a win for Orlando keeps them in the running for first, while anything short keeps the competition alive for the other 12 teams.

When it comes down to it, this is a matchup between the two top teams in the NWSL in one of the most energetic atmospheres in the NWSL. The reigning champions are coming into an electric CPKC Stadium for the first time since lifting the NWSL Championship trophy last fall. For different reasons, neither team surely has forgotten that.
