History was made in spades this weekend. From Ashley Sanchez setting a new single-season goal scoring record for an American to the Washington Spirit defeating the Portland Thorns at Providence Park for the first time ever to end the club's record home-win streak, Matchweek 20 was one for the books.

Utah Royals 1-2 Boston Legacy

Bay FC 1-2 Kansas City Current

Racing Louisville 0-2 Angel City FC

Denver Summit 3-0 Gotham FC

Chicago Stars 0-6 North Carolina Courage

Portland Thorns 1-2 Washington Spirit

Orlando Pride 3-1 Houston Dash

Seattle Reign 1-0 San Diego Wave

Ashley Sanchez set a new record for goals scored by an American in a single season. She has 18, passing Alex Morgan and Crystal Dunn with 15.

Mélissa Bethi scored her first NWSL goal. She's the first Algerian player in league history.

Maddie Mercado scored the 500th goal of the NWSL season, the game-winner for Seattle.

Utah goalkeeper Mandy McGlynn earned her second assist this season. She is just the second keeper to earn more than one assist. The first was North Carolina's Kailen Sheridan, who did so last week.

Croix Bethune assisted the game-winning goal for the Kansas City Current, tying the single-season assist record of 10.

Angel City's Evelyn Shores scored her first career brace.

Ashley Sanchez's breakout season for the Courage shows no signs of slowing. The Golden Boot leader scored a hat trick in Chicago, putting her season total at 18 goals on the year to set a new American goal scoring record, passing both Alex Morgan and Crystal Dunn. The dominant win put the North Carolina Courage in third place, just four points behind Sanchez's former club, the Washington Spirit.

It wasn't just the American scoring record that Sanchez could topple this year. She now has five multi-goal games and six game-winning goals, which both tie league records. Her hat trick was the ninth overall in Courage history, she is the seventh Courage player to score a hat trick, extending their league record set earlier this year.

It's a tall task to go up against the best defense in the league, but the Summit make it look easy. For the second time this season, the Denver Summit shut out Gotham FC, and just a week after Olivia Thomas and Yuzuki Yamamoto both scored their first NWSL goals, the duo scored their second.

Going into the weekend, the Washington Spirit had never won against the Portland Thorns in Portland, but who doesn't love a first? After the Spirit went down a goal thanks to Sophia Wilson's 10th penalty kick conversion, a Tara Rudd PK equalized but it was Mélissa Bethi in her first NWSL start who got her hero moment. Bethi scored her first NWSL goal, a game-winner to give the Spirit their first win in Portland.

It was an emotionally charged week for the Orlando Pride that ended in a historic win. Yolanda Thomas was named the interim head coach after the Pride parted ways with Seb Hines, and not only is she the first Black woman in the head coach's role in NWSL history, she is just the fourth female coach to win her first-ever NWSL match.

The final goal of the weekend was the 500th of the season in the NWSL. It was Maddie Mercado who get the game-winner for the Reign, thanks to an assist from Maddie Dahlien, and of course, Maddie<sup>2</sup> had to hit the celly for the occasion. Dahlien served it up for Mercado again, this time instead of a very real soccer ball, it was an imaginary baseball. Mercado knocked it out of the park.

It was a six-goal day for the Courage, and while Sanchez bagged three of them, Chioma Okafor, Ryan Williams, and Shinomi Koyama with the other trio. Koyama celebrated her first of the year in full "Dragon Ball Z" fusion style. She linked up with Uno Shiragaki for the move that "fuses" two characters powers together into a single, more powerful being.

We should have known what we were in for this week when it started with a quadruple nutmeg caught on camera. While walking off the pitch after the Summit’s 6-1 win over the Stars last weekend, Emma Regan nonchalantly nutmegged a ball through not one – but FOUR teammates – as they walked in a line. It is something so outrageous you have to see it to believe it.
