NEW YORK (September 7, 2022) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of August by the NWSL Media Association. Headlined by August Player of the Month Megan Rapinoe, six teams are represented in the league’s top 11, including the Kansas City Current with three players, the North Carolina Courage and OL Reign each with two selections, and Angel City FC, the Houston Dash, Orlando Pride and San Diego Wave FC all with one player.

NEW YORK (September 7, 2022) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of August by the NWSL Media Association. Headlined by August Player of the Month Megan Rapinoe, six teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including the Kansas City Current with three players, the North Carolina Courage and OL Reign each with two selections, and Angel City FC, the Houston Dash, Orlando Pride and San Diego Wave FC all with one player. <br>GK – Adrianna Franch (KC): The league’s top goalkeeper for the second-straight month, Franch made five key saves to help extend Kansas City’s unbeaten streak to 12 games (8-0-4). <br>D – Elizabeth Ball (KC): Ball’s lockdown defense helped Kansas City stay unbeaten through the month of August. The defender also notched the game-winning assist in the team’s 4-3 win over North Carolina. <br>D – Naomi Girma (SD): The league’s Rookie of the Month in May, Girma enjoyed another solid month on defense for San Diego Wave FC, appearing in every minute of play throughout August. <br>D – Sofia Huerta (RGN): Huerta was sturdy on the Reign backline and set up the game-winning goal in OL’s 2-1 win over Orlando to earn a spot on this month’s Best XI. The next assist for Huerta will tie her for the league career assist record (30). <br>D – Carson Pickett (NC): A two-time Best XI selection, Pickett’s stellar month of August included a trio of assists. In games where the Florida native has gotten on the scoresheet this month, the Courage have gone 2-0-1. <br>M – Meggie Dougherty Howard (ORL): Dougherty Howard enjoyed a productive month in the Pride midfield, notching a pair of goals, including the game winner against San Diego Wave FC on August 13. <br>M – Lo’eau LaBonta (KC): LaBonta led the scoring for the Current this month, tallying three goals and an assist to help Kansas City to a 3-0-1 record. <br>M –

Cari Roccaro (LA):

Roccaro enjoyed her most productive month of play, tallying three goals in four games. Roccaro has scored a career-high four goals in 2022. <br>F – Diana

Ordóñez (NCC):

This month’s Rookie of the Month , Ordóñez was electric for the Courage throughout August, tallying five goals, including two braces, to lead North Carolina in scoring. Ordóñez is tied for second in the Golden Boot race and leads all rookies with 11 tallies this season. <br>F – Megan Rapinoe (RGN): The August Player of the Month , Rapinoe tallied four goals, including a brace, and three assists to lead the NWSL’s offensive effort for the month. In addition, her goal in the Reign’s August 26 match against Orlando earned her Player of the Week honors. With the honor, Rapinoe ties Kim Little for most Player of the Month honors with four. <br>F – Ebony Salmon (HOU): The July Player of the Month, Salmon has quickly become a fixture for the Dash offense, tallying four goals in five games to help Houston to 2-1-2 record in August. <br>Mastercard and the NWSL launched the Best XI of the Month awards platform with the First Team and Second Team honors for the 22 top players of the league after the 2021 season. Mastercard believes that our world is full of brilliant possibilities and unlocking the potential in every person across all parts of their life is what Priceless is all about. The development of the Best XI is a further commitment from the company to connect NWSL fans to the league and the athletes they love. <br>The NWSL Team of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis. <br>
