Playmakers across the NWSL create opportunities for their team. Whether it be unmatched speed or the ability to find open spaces, a true playmaker is relentless.

Player-turned-commentator Jordan Angeli has a bird-eye view of the NWSL action and knows firsthand how important a playmaker is for any team.

Angeli is on the mic every Saturday for ION (though she’ll be calling the game between the Spirit and Thorns for ABC on August 3 at 12:30pm ET), and as the NWSL gears back up, Angeli shares the five players – and some honorable mentions! – she expects to turn up the heat for their teams.

In no particular order, these are her Playmakers to Watch in the second half of the season.

“The 23-year-old, German youth international has brought a level of unpredictability on the ball that suits this San Diego Wave team. She is shifty, exciting, and can attract attention in order to drive past a line of defenders or place a teammate into space with a precise pass. She also isn't afraid to start in different positions – utilizing defenders’ spacing to create and attack space effectively.”

“It’s hard to not put Marta on the list because she is the best to ever do it. Her role within the Pride allows her to float into spaces at the right time and pull the strings for the Pride. Even though you know she wants her left foot, she still finds a way to punish defenders time and time again.”

“Even though she has been out for two months, her play at the beginning of the season was MVP quality. If that would have continued, there is no question in my mind she would have been the best player in the league. Debinha is creative in her thinking and execution on the ball. On the dribble, with a pass, or a cheeky run, she is hard to track and finds both goals and assists. Hopefully we will see her back this season. That hope is for spectators. I’m sure defenders feel differently.”

“Manaka Matsukubo has been excellent through 13 weeks. She has played as both a false nine but has, at times, played in a double 10. Her soccer IQ is beyond her age. Yeah, she is just 20 years old. Manaka can hold the ball up, combine in tight spaces, drive with the ball at her feet, and has scored some of the most memorable goals of the season so far.”

“Angel City FC has been way more front-footed with an attacking mindset through the first 13 weeks, and it’s the youngster Kennedy Fuller whose fingerprints have been all over their attack. She finds the right pockets, is aggressive in her decision making, and is always looking to advance the ball. I’ve enjoyed watching her create combinations, and she can also drag players out to make isolations for players around her.”

“After 2024, it felt like it could be a big year for Liv. Whether she is asked to play in a 10 or winger role, she finds pockets to link play and will find times during both roles to play centrally. Her production on the score sheet in goals and assists is allowing her confidence to rise, and it really feels like we have watched her grow up in front of our eyes – and boy, has it been fun to watch.”

Honorable mentions go to Washington’s Croix Bethune and Gotham’s Rose Lavelle. Neither have had enough time this season to really see what they can do, but in 13 weeks, both of these players can easily get themselves into the top five.
