Match facts:

The Orlando Pride face the Washington Spirit in the lone game on Friday night, the first of six across a packed weekend of Challenge Cup action. The Pride are currently bottom of the East Division with just one point from four games, while Washington needs a win in their final divisional match–as well as help from others–in order to qualify for the Challenge Cup playoffs.

Players to watch:

<br>Against the Courage, Orlando midfielder

Viviana Villacorta

completed all 15 of her attempted passes. That is the most passes ever attempted by a Pride player (any competition) who finished a match with a perfect passing accuracy. Orlando has scored four goals in four Challenge Cup matches so far, with forward

Ally Watt

leading the team in scoring with two in the team’s opening two games. <br>Washington forward

Ashley Hatch

, who has been on her game all year for the Spirit, scored twice while adding an assist in the club’s win over Gotham. The three goal contributions were tied for the most in a single game in Challenge Cup history with Hannah Betfort, Kristen Hamilton, and Spirit teammate

Trinity Rodman

, who is with the U.S. Women’s National Team on World Cup duty. <br>Match facts: The Orlando Pride face the Washington Spirit in the lone game on Friday night, the first of six across a packed weekend of Challenge Cup action. The Pride are currently bottom of the East Division with just one point from four games, while Washington needs a win in their final divisional match–as well as help from others–in order to qualify for the Challenge Cup playoffs. <br>Orlando is coming in off a 5-0 loss to North Carolina, with the five goals being the most ever conceded in a Challenge Cup match by the pride. It was Orlando’s fourth time allowing four or more goals in the competition with no other NWSL team having done so more than once in Challenge Cup history. <br>Last Friday, Washington beat Gotham FC, 4-2, despite trailing by two goals after eight minutes of play. It was the first time in NWSL history (all competitions) that a team won by multiple goals in a match in which it trailed by multiple goals. That bounce back result came after the Spirit had lost 6-0 to North Carolina in the most lopsided Challenge Cup contest in history. <br>The Pride have won each of their last two matches against the Spirit in all competitions, including a 3-0 road win in the most recent meeting. It is Orlando’s second time winning consecutive games against Washington, also doing so in three straight games spanning 2018 and 2019. <br>Ways to watch: Fans in the

United States

can watch the match on Paramount+ while fans

abroad

will be able to watch on NWSLSoccer.com . <br>
