NEW YORK (March 11, 2026) – Panini America, the world’s largest sports and entertainment collectibles company, is the new exclusive trading card partner of the National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and the NWSL Players Association (NWSLPA). The alliance is a multi-year agreement.

Panini will introduce multiple NWSL-related products, including trading card products featuring some of its most popular brands, digital collectibles on Panini’s blockchain and an Official Sticker Collection. The partnership will begin with the launch of NWSL trading cards to coincide with the start of the season on its Panini Instant platform, which will recognize outstanding player performances and milestones throughout the NWSL season. The organizations will also collaborate on a number of fan marketing initiatives and NWSL team-specific and player-led activations.

“We’re proud and excited to be partnering with the NWSL and NWSLPA and creating new products that showcase the outstanding athletes competing in the NWSL,” said Mark Warsop, CEO for Panini America. “Having great partners like the NWSL and NWSLPA within our portfolio is another example of our continued commitment to celebrating both soccer and women’s sports.”

Panini has a storied history in soccer beginning with Serie A soccer going back to the company’s founding in 1961, being a partner of the FIFA World Cup since 1970 and other soccer licenses including U.S. Soccer, USMNT, USWNTPA, La Liga, The English Football League, and Barclays Women’s Super League. The company also has a strong presence in women’s sports, including the WNBA, WNBPA, multiple university athletic programs, and the 3-on-3 basketball league Unrivaled.

“As the NWSL continues to grow commercially and expand its fan base, partnering with Panini strengthens our presence in one of the most iconic categories in sports licensing,” said Katie Eaton, VP of Consumer Products for the NWSL. “Trading cards are a cornerstone of sports fandom, and working with a global leader like Panini allows us to showcase our players in new ways while meeting the growing demand for NWSL collectibles.”

“This partnership places NWSL athletes alongside the world’s top leagues, expanding their global exposure and connecting fans everywhere,” said Meghann Burke, Executive Director, NWSLPA. “Our players are global icons defining the next era of the sport, and this collaboration elevates their prominence on the international stage.”

OneTeam Partners, the NWSLPA’s exclusive commercial partner, led the renewal on behalf of the players.

The 2026 NWSL regular season will kick-off on Friday, March 13th, with the Washington Spirit hosting Portland Thorns FC. Each of the NWSL’s 16 clubs will play 30 matches, and the 2026 NWSL Championship is scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 21st.

About Panini America

Panini America is a subsidiary of The Panini Group, established over 60 years ago in Modena, Italy with subsidiaries throughout Europe, Latin America and the United States. Panini is the world leader in officially licensed collectibles and is the most significant publisher of collectibles in the U.S., with official licenses for NFL, NFLPA, WNBA, WNBPA, NASCAR, FIFA, LIV Golf, the Professional Fighters League, College, Disney, and other key properties from many other licensors. Panini is also the exclusive trading card and sticker partner of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, Elite 11 and Pop Warner Little Scholars, Inc.

Panini has distribution channels in more than 150 countries and employs a staff of over 1,200. For more information visit us at www.paniniamerica.net, www.paninigroup.com or http://blog.paniniamerica.net/. You can also follow Panini America on social media platforms Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Instagram.

About the NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About NWSLPA

The National Women’s Soccer League Players Association (NWSLPA) exists to protect and advance the rights of all NWSL players. Through collective action, policy enforcement, and ongoing advocacy, the union ensures that players have a voice in shaping their league, safeguarding their safety, and securing the professional standards they deserve.
