With just a few weeks left in the regular season, every match is a must win, and week 21’s matchups are set to play a crucial role in determining the final standings. Four playoff spots are still up for grabs and the NWSL Shield race is narrowing. We have all the details on this weekend’s storylines!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Match: Angel City FC vs. Washington Spirit - 10:00 PM EST How to watch: Prime Video

Angel City FC and Washington Spirit face off Friday night in the first match of the weekend and it’s an important one. Both teams need the points, with ACFC hoping to stay in the playoff fight and the Spirit hoping to make a comeback from defeat last weekend to stay in the race for the Shield. Despite the loss in Kansas City, Leicy Santos was a bright spot, creating seven chances for her teammates. The Spirit have shown resilience this season, bouncing back to win following each of their previous losses. On the other side, Angel City will lean on their young star, Alyssa Thompson, who notched her ninth career goal on Monday and her fifth in five games, closing in on the teenage scoring record.

Match: Kansas City Current vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 1:00 PM EST How to watch: CBS | Paramount+

Start your Saturday with Kansas City Current and Gotham FC as they face off in a match with playoff implications. Kansas City comes in riding a historic wave of home dominance, having won six straight matches at CPKC Stadium — the longest streak in club history. Temwa Chawinga has been lethal at home, scoring in six consecutive matches and tying the single-season NWSL record for home goals with 11. Gotham, however, has the league’s toughest defense, recording nine clean sheets in their last 11 outings, including a 1-0 win over Utah last Sunday courtesy of Yazmeen Ryan’s early strike. The Current have never lost to Gotham in seven all-time meetings, making them Gotham’s toughest opponent yet, but the visitors’ stingy defense will be key to snapping that streak.

Match: Utah Royals FC vs. Racing Louisville FC - 7:00 PM EST How to watch: NWSL+

Racing Louisville and Utah Royals meet again after a lopsided 5-1 Louisville victory in their only previous encounter. Racing, fresh off back-to-back wins, is looking to notch their first-ever three-game winning streak in NWSL play. Bethany Balcer has been clutch for Racing, scoring a dramatic 92nd-minute winner last weekend — the latest game-winning goal in club history. Meanwhile, Utah has turned a corner offensively, scoring 11 goals in their last four home matches after managing just three in their previous eight. A key player to watch is Cloé Lacasse, who has been a creative force for the Royals ever since joining up with them at the end of the summer.

Match: Orlando Pride vs. Houston Dash - 7:30 PM EST How to watch: ION

Orlando Pride and Houston Dash square off again, with the Pride aiming to continue their remarkable 22-game regular-season unbeaten streak, the longest in NWSL history. Orlando edged out Houston 1-0 in their last encounter but the Dash are coming off of a huge win at home thanks to a stunning game-winning volley from Yuki Nagasato. With both sides carrying momentum, it’s anyone’s game.

Match: San Diego Wave FC vs. Portland Thorns - 10:00 PM EST How to watch: ION

San Diego Wave and Portland Thorns are facing off in a Saturday evening SoCal showdown with both teams needing points to fight for the four remaining playoff spots. A bright spot for the Thorns has been teenager Olivia Moultrie, who became the second teenager in NWSL history to record 10 goals and 10 assists in all competitions. But with San Diego unbeaten in their last four home games against Portland in all competitions, the Wave will hope their fans can cheer them past a Thorns side looking to regain their spark.

Match: Chicago Red Stars vs. North Carolina Courage - 6:00 PM EST How to watch: NWSL+ | Paramount+

The North Carolina Courage take on the Chicago Red Stars Sunday evening in Chicago in a match between two teams in strong form. The Courage have been tough to break down this season and are third in the league in fewest goals allowed. But Chicago is riding back-to-back wins for the fourth time this season, with Ludmila scoring the game winner last weekend and hitting her stride with her new club. Both teams are fighting for the remaining four playoff spots and it’s anyone’s game.

Match: Seattle Reign vs. Bay FC - 6:00 PM EST How to watch: NWSL+ | Paramount+

It’s a rematch in Seattle as the Seattle Reign and Bay FC meet again after Bay FC’s thrilling 3-2 victory in their first-ever meeting back in April. The Reign will be looking to bounce back after a defeat in Houston last weekend. Meanwhile, Bay FC has been formidable on the road, dropping just one of their last five away games and collecting 10 points in that span. Racheal Kundananji continues to be a driving force for the expansion team, leading the team in shots and chances created.
