NEW YORK (October 3, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of September by the NWSL Media Association. Headlined by Player of the Month Trinity Rodman, seven teams are represented in the league’s Top 11.

GK – Aubrey Kingsbury (WAS): Kingsbury earned three clean sheets in September.

D – Caprice Dydasco (BAY): Dydasco is on track to be club’s first ironwoman and she led the club in clearances this month.

D – Carson Pickett (ORL): Pickett scored her second goal of the season -- the first game-winner of her career.

D – Kayla Sharples (KC): Sharples led the Current defense to a new league shutout streak record (870 minutes) and led the club in clearances for the month with 22.

D – Janni Thomsen (UTA): Thomsen scored her first two NWSL goals in back-to-back games.

M – Croix Bethune (WAS): Bethune scored a goal and notched an assist off the bench.

M – Kenza Dali (SD): Dali led the league in chances created with 11 and successful passes ending in the final third.

M – Rose Lavelle (GFC): Lavelle scored in back-to-back games and had a game with both a goal and assist for the first time in her NWSL career.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): In just five shots on target, Chawinga scored three goals.

F – Paige Monaghan (UTA): Monaghan had a scoring contribution in every game this month, earning two goals and two assists.

F – Trinity Rodman (WAS): Rodman’s three goals and two assists led the league in goal contributions.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis.
