As the NWSL prepares to bid farewell to six of its retiring players, it is important to reflect on how each player contributed to the game during their tenure, leaving the NWSL and the sport in a better place than they found it.

Sinead Farrelly, Merritt Mathias, Alex Morgan, Kelley O’Hara, Desiree Scott, and Christine Sinclair have all announced that the 2024 NWSL season will be their last in professional soccer. All six of these players played a part in the inaugural NWSL season more than 11 years ago, and their stories are a huge reason why the NWSL has developed into the thriving, competitive league that it is today.

They have made the sport come alive for fans all over the world. This class of talent leaves the game as architects of moments and memories that NWSL fans will not soon forget and the records, titles, trophies, and medals to prove their contributions were significant.

It’s a group filled with people who have fought for things they believe in, overcome mountains of adversity, and represented themselves, their communities and the NWSL. This retiring class set a standard that has elevated the sport to new levels in the U.S. and empowered a generation of players to continue their legacy; seeking excellence, equity, and growth on and off the field.

Since their debuts in NWSL in 2013, the league’s total attendance has more than tripled, and the average attendance per match has increased 164%. These players have helped prove for over a decade that soccer fans in the United States will show up to watch the most skilled, gifted, and determined soccer players perform on the biggest stages.

Without players like them, the world would still be waiting for its first stadium built specifically for women’s professional sports. Instead, the 2024 NWSL Championship game will be hosted at CPKC Stadium, a moment which will highlight the trajectory of the NWSL and the players who make it one of the best leagues in the world.

But the impact of these players will live on. Simply put, they played a part in lighting the proverbial torch. And as they hand that torch off to the next generation of players, we are excited to see what the next chapter of life brings for each and every one of them.

Alex Morgan

Alex Morgan stands out as one of the most influential forwards in the league's history. Morgan has been the spearhead of dangerous attacking teams with the Portland Thorns, Orlando Pride, and San Diego Wave FC, consistently scoring great goals and putting in match-changing performances. Known for her speed, technical precision, and goal-scoring ability, Morgan has been one of the most recognizable faces in the NWSL since its inception in 2013.

Honors & Achievements:

NWSL Champion: 2013

NWSL Shield: 2023

NWSL Golden Boot: 2022

FIFA Women’s World Cup Winner: 2015, 2019

Olympic Gold Medalist: 2012

NWSL Best XI: 2022

FIFA FIFPro Women’s World XI: 6x

Christine Sinclair

Christine Sinclair, a legendary forward, has been a pillar for the Portland Thorns FC throughout the entirety of her remarkable NWSL career. Known for her perpetual goal-scoring and leadership, Sinclair has driven her team to multiple championships and set new benchmarks for the league and broader soccer world. Her commitment to excellence in Portland on the field and influence off it, have inspired countless young athletes, solidifying her legacy as one of the greatest players in women's soccer history.

Honors & Achievements:

NWSL Champion: 2013, 2017, 2022

All-Time Leading Goal Scorer in Women’s International Soccer

NWSL Shield: 2016, 2021

Olympic Gold Medalist: 2021

Golden Boot: 2012 Olympics

Canadian Player of the Year: 14x

Kelley O’Hara

Kelley O’Hara has been a versatile and influential player who has helped shape the success of every team she’s played for. Throughout her career, O’Hara has excelled both as a defender and midfielder for teams like Sky Blue FC, Utah Royals, Washington Spirit, and NY/NJ Gotham FC. Her leadership was pivotal in Washington Spirit’s 2021 NWSL Championship victory, where she scored the match-winning goal in extra time. In 2023, O’Hara joined Gotham FC where she contributed to her team’s championship run while serving on the leadership team. Her tactical intelligence, adaptability, and infectious personality have made her a beloved figure for fans everywhere.

Honors & Achievements:

NWSL Champion: 2021, 2023

World Cup Winner: 2015, 2019

Olympic Gold Medalist: 2012

FIFA FIFPro Women’s World XI: 2019

Merritt Mathias

Merritt Mathias hangs up her boots at the end of the 2024 season as one of NWSL’s founding players. After appearing in the first ever NWSL match in 2013, Mathias didn’t look back, appearing in almost 200 games for Kansas City, Seattle, North Carolina, and Angel City FC. Mathias battled back from injuries to make her Angel City debut this March, and was able to make 13 appearances for the Los Angeles club in her final season. A three-time NWSL Champion and Shield winner, Mathias is known as a player that made life difficult and sometimes painful for opposing attackers, and will be remembered as a leader not just for her teams, but for the NWSL as a whole.

Honors & Achievements:

NWSL Champion: 2014, 2018, 2019

NWSL Shield: 2015, 2018, 2019

NWSL Second XI: 2018

Desiree Scott

A true cornerstone midfielder for the Kansas City Current, Desi “The Destroyer” has been a consistent figure in defensive midfield positions in Kansas City and Utah during her NWSL career. As one of three remaining KC Current originals, Scott has shown remarkable work rate and consistency, with over 10,000 minutes played throughout her 10 NWSL seasons. After an injury caused her to miss the entire 2023 season, Scott returned in 2024 to support the KC Current midfield, playing in 9 matches in 2024.

Honors & Achievements:

Olympic Gold Medalist: 2021

Olympic Bronze Medalist: 2012, 2016

NWSL Ally Award: 2021

Sinead Farrelly

Sinead Farrelly’s story in the NWSL is one of persistence and determination. After emerging into FC Kansas City’s midfield during the inaugural NWSL season, she was traded to Portland Thorns where she became a key figure in their midfield for the 2014 and 2015 seasons. In 2016, after being traded to Boston Breakers, Farrelly was involved in an unfortunate car accident and suffered injuries that caused her to sit out the entire 2016 season, and later retired. After a remarkable six-year absence from the game, Farrelly earned her place in the 2023 Gotham FC squad, and appeared in 21 games for the club on their way to the NWSL Championship.

In June of 2024, Farrelly announced her retirement once again due to post-concussion syndrome. Off the field, Farrelly will be remembered for her bravery, honesty, and vulnerability that saw her become a catalyst for meaningful change for player welfare in the NWSL. You can read more about her story here.

Honors & Achievements:

NWSL Champion: 2023

Ireland International: 8 Caps

Thank you, Sinead, Merritt, Alex, Kelley, Desiree and Christine*,* for your hard work, your dedication and your contribution to this league and the game, your legacies will live on.
