NEW YORK (August 9, 2024) - Eight NWSL players have been named to the U.S. Under-20 Women’s Youth National Team roster ahead of the team's upcoming 2024 FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup in Colombia.

Head Coach Tracey Kevins’ roster includes the top two picks from the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, in forward Ally Sentnor and defender Savy King. Sentnor, the third-youngest No. 1 overall pick in league history, selected by Utah Royals FC, led the U.S. with four goals in the 2023 Concacaf U-20 Championship. Additionally, the Hanson, Massachusetts native recently became the second player in league history to be awarded Rookie of the Month and Player of the Month honors for the same month.

King, Sentnor’s college teammate and Bay FC’s first-ever NWSL Draft pick, has played in all 15 regular season matches for the Northern California-based expansion club, recording one assist for the team.

Joining Sentnor and King is the ninth overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, Orlando Pride midfielder Ally Lemos, who has featured in 11 regular season games this season. No stranger to the U.S. Youth National Team program, Lemos scored a goal for the USWYNT in the Concacaf U-20 Championship.

The 2024 draftees will play alongside Angel City FC defender Gisele Thompson, Kansas City Current midfielder Claire Hutton, North Carolina Courage midfielder Riley Jackson, Seattle Reign FC forward Emeri Adames and defender Jordyn Bugg who all signed professional contracts via the NWSL Under-18 Entry Mechanism.

Thompson is the lone player on the roster to see training time with the senior U.S. Women’s National Team, having competed in the squad’s February 2024 training camp.

Earlier this season, Adames became the youngest scorer in Seattle Reign history, notching a goal in the regular season on May 24. She also featured for the U.S. at the 2023 Pan American Games, where she scored in a 2-1 semifinal loss to the senior Chile Women’s National Team.

Bugg, Hutton and Thompson also appeared in the Pan Ams, giving them relevant experience against senior National Teams.

The U.S. kicks off its tournament campaign on Sunday, September 1, against reigning FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup champions, Spain, before facing Morocco and Paraguay on September 4 and September 7, respectively.
