The Chinese women’s national team qualified directly for the 2023 World Cup and will return to the world stage as the Queens of Asia for the first time since 2006, following the nation's long-awaited AFC Women's Asian Cup win in February of last year. In seven friendlies ahead of the tournament this year, China PR has a record of 2-2-3 as they look to make history in Australia and New Zealand this summer with their first World Cup trophy.

The Chinese women’s national team qualified directly for the 2023 World Cup and will return to the world stage as the Queens of Asia for the first time since 2006, following the nation's long-awaited AFC Women's Asian Cup win in February of last year. In seven friendlies ahead of the tournament this year, China PR has a record of 2-2-3 as they look to make history in Australia and New Zealand this summer with their first World Cup trophy.The Steel Roses will depend on right winger and Racing Louisville FC midfielder Wang Shuang to produce offense. Wang Shuang, set to appear in her third straight Women’s World Cup fixture, has enjoyed a productive season with the Kentucky-based NWSL club and made league history earlier this season when she became the first Chinese international to score a goal in the NWSL. The Wuhan native’s fast pace and left-footed ball skills will be assets throughout the tournament for China, who will look to her and teammate Wang Shanshan to kickstart the squad’s scoring. Combining for ten goals in China’s AFC Cup win, the pair have become an electric duo throughout their time on the national team. A dynamic dribbler, passer and scorer, Wang has tallied 39 goals in 117 appearances for China’s national team after making her debut at 17 years old. En route to a 2022 Asian Cup title, Wang tied for second in tournament scoring with five goals. Wang started in each of China’s four 2019 World Cup matches, helping her squad reach the Round of 16 in France, and was also part of the 2015 World Cup team. She will lead a squad hoping to resurrect its successes of years past, when China was runner-up in the famous 1999 World Cup and repeat quarterfinalists in 2003, 2007 and 2015. China begins its World Cup journey with a match against Denmark on July 22nd at 8 a.m. ET.
