The 2026 iteration of the NWSL Challenge Cup presented by e.l.f. is fast approaching. Here’s all you need to know!

This year’s Challenge Cup will be on June 26 between 2025 NWSL Champions Gotham FC and 2025 NWSL Shield winners Kansas City Current. The match will be played at ScottsMiracle-Gro Field in Columbus, Ohio, home to the upcoming NWSL expansion team, and will be the first-ever professional women’s soccer match in Ohio.

It will also be Gotham’s third time in a deciding match for the Challenge Cup and with that, an appearance in the game for Midge Purce means she will become the first player to reach three Challenge Cup finals with one club. The game will be Savannah McCaskill (CHI 2020, SD 2024) and Emily Sonnett's (WAS 2022, GFC 2024) third Challenge Cup final as well, but not all with Gotham.

Let’s look back at the evolution of the Challenge Cup ahead of this year’s match.

The Challenge Cup started in 2020 as a bubble tournament during the pandemic, giving NWSL fans a way to safely support their favorite teams from home. The Houston Dash won it that year over the Chicago Stars, gaining their first-ever trophy.

After the inaugural competition, the Challenge Cup became a standard league-wide tournament. In that format, which lasted for two seasons, the Cup was played during the preseason. The Portland Thorns lifted the Challenge Cup in 2021 over Gotham and in 2022, the North Carolina Courage triumphed over the Washington Spirit.

In 2023 the tournament schedule became concurrent with regular league play. That year, the Courage ran it back and took home the Cup for the second year in a row, and Manaka Matsukubo became the youngest player to ever play in, score a goal in, and win a Challenge Cup final.

In 2024, the Challenge Cup became what it is today: a single match faceoff between the Shield winners and the league champions. In the 2024 matchup, the San Diego Wave triumphed over Gotham FC. The most recent edition was a rematch of the 2024 NWSL Championship between Orlando Pride and Washington Spirit. Unlike the championship, where the Pride emerged victorious, the Spirit took home the win.

Gotham and Kansas City have never faced off in any iteration of the Challenge Cup, and no matter who takes home the Challenge Cup this year, it’s sure to be an exciting match. Catch the 2026 Challenge Cup presented by e.l.f. on June 26 on Prime Video!

The current format pits the reigning NWSL Champion against the previous season’s NWSL Shield winner in a winner-take-all style match. If one club captures both the NWSL Championship and the Shield in the same season, the Championship runner-up earns the second Challenge Cup berth.

The match itself follows a straightforward format. Teams will play two 45-minute halves, and unlike many knockout competitions, no extra time will be played. If the score remains level after 90 minutes, the Challenge Cup champion will be determined directly by a penalty shootout.

2020 \- Houston Dash

2021 \- Portland Thorns FC

2022 \- North Carolina Courage

2023 \- North Carolina Courage

2024 \- San Diego Wave FC

2025 \- Washington Spirit

Includes all games.

Goals \- Debinha and Kristen Hamilton (12)

Assists \- Hailie Mace (7)

Saves \- Jane Campbell (62)
