After an entertaining start to Matchweek 3 on Wednesday night, the rest of the action continues on Friday night, starting with a showdown in Los Angeles and concluding on the other side of the country in New Jersey. After Portland’s perfect start to the season was thwarted by San Diego, only two teams enter the upcoming weekend perfect and it just so happens they’re our Friday night opponents.

Angel City FC vs Houston Dash – 10 p.m. ET

How to Watch: Amazon Prime

Friday night’s match in Los Angeles is between two teams who have made early statements this season: Angel City FC and Houston Dash, the league’s only remaining 2-0-0 teams. Both teams are chasing history, as a third straight win would put them among a small group of teams to open an NWSL season 3-0-0. Angel City enters off a confident 3-1 win over Bay FC while Houston is coming off a dominant 3-0 home opener victory where Kiki Van Zanten stole the show.

For Angel City, the attack has been streaming through Sveindís Jónsdóttir, who has exploded into the Golden Boot race with two goals and an assist last weekend, earning Player of the Week honors. She’s complemented by a devastating cast of offensive-minded characters: Kennedy Fuller, Maiara Nuehues, Riley Tiernan, Ary Borges, and even defenders Gisele Thompsen and Evelyn Shores. Houston, meanwhile, is riding a balanced performance led by Kiki Van Zanten, who scored a brace of her own last weekend. Goalkeeper Jane Campbell is closing down on a club shutout record, and if she can add to her tally this weekend, a result in SoCal is possible. Both teams enter the match perfect, but unless they settle for a draw, only one team can exit the same.

Boston Legacy vs Utah Royals – 12 p.m. ET

How to Watch: ESPN2, ESPN Deportes, ESPN App

Boston is back home this weekend after a tough loss in Houston in Matchweek 2. Still without the club’s first-ever goal, they’re looking for history against the visiting Utah Royals, who are 2-0-1 after two losses and a gritty draw in D.C. on Wednesday night. Utah’s Mina Tanaka, fresh off international duty with Japan, has been sorely missed and reminded everyone she was the Royals’ leading goal scorer last season when she converted Cece Delzer’s pass in the box versus the Spirit. Her ability to make those quick shots without any hesitation and at a moment’s notice will be valuable against a Boston who is still trying to lock down their defense.

For Boston, the foundation has been there defensively. Casey Murphy already delivered a penalty save in Houston and a core group including Joralyn Corabalí, Kaká, and Annie Karich has put in every minute of the season together so far. The final product, while elusive at the moment, will be worth it. But that timeline puts added pressure on the attack to finally break through and what a moment it would be if they scored their first-ever club goal at home.

Denver Summit vs Washington Spirit – 2 p.m. ET

How to Watch: CBS, Paramount+

Denver’s long-awaited home debut arrives in Matchweek 3, with an expected record-breaking crowd ready to cheer on their new team against the Washington Spirit. Fresh off their first-ever regular-season win – a 2-0 shutout at Gotham against the reigning Champions – Denver suddenly carries real momentum into this one. It’s led by German forward Melissa Kössler, who has scored three out of four of the club’s goals, and Abby Smith, the goalkeeper who provided their first clean sheet in club history on Wednesday. Filled to the brim with confidence (and deservedly so), the question now becomes whether Denver can translate that energy into a first home goal and potentially, a statement result.

Washington, however, presents a bit of a challenge. Still without a win and coming off a frustrating late draw against Utah, they’re flying into Denver looking for all three points. Rosemonde Kouassi has been clutch for the club creatively, powering them to a comeback draw in Louisville with two assists in Matchweek 2, and Sofia Cantore, Trinity Rodman, and Gift Monday all could be her targets. Goalkeeper Sandy MacIver, who has stepped up while Aubrey Kingsbury is out on maternity leave, is still working through some shakiness but she has a strong backline anchored by Rebeca Bernal to support her. As always in a league as competitive as the NWSL, it’s anyone’s game, but this is surely a must-watch match for all curious sports fans.

Portland Thorns vs Kansas City Current – 4 p.m. ET

How to Watch: CBS, Paramount+

Don’t turn off that TV! Once Summit versus the Spirit concludes, you have four more matches left on a soccer-filled Saturday, and this is a fun one. Portland and Kansas City meet in a tense matchup after both experienced morose midweek losses on the road. The Thorns return home after a 3-1 loss in San Diego despite a strong performance from Pietra Tordin and more minutes for Sophia WIlson, while Kansas City experienced a rare shutout 0-3 loss in Spokane. It was the first time since 2024 the Current have conceded three in a regular season match. Both teams will be eager for a reset as they march forward through the start of this zany, zany season.

Despite recent form, Kansas City has had the upper hand in this fixture, winning the last five meetings and outscoring Portland 15-6 in that time. That puts pressure on a Thorns side leaning on its young core, with attacking leaders like Olivia Moultrie – one goal away from becoming the youngest to score 20 – and Tordin, WIlson, and recent goal scorer Reilyn Turner. For KC, the attack runs through Debinha, Croix Bethune, and Michelle Cooper, all of whom are capable of changing a game. With Temwa Chawinga still out on injury, they will have to step up if they want to turnaround recent results.

Seattle Reign vs Racing Louisville – 6:30 p.m. ET

How to Watch: ION

Seattle returns home riding serious momentum after a dominant midweek performance against the reigning Shield winners, and they’ll look to carry that into a matchup against a Louisville side still searching for its first win of the season. The Reign put together one of the most complete performances of the week in their 3-0 victory over Kansas City, with goals from Angharad James-Turner, Maddie Mercado, and Brittany Ratclife, and Sofia Huerta continuing to rewrite the record books – adding two more assists to extend her all-time league mark. With Claudia Dickey securing a club-record clean sheet and the attack firing early, Seattle looks like one of the most balanced teams in the league through the opening stretch.

Louisville, meanwhile, was a little shaky in its last outing, giving up a two-goal advantage to the Spirit. They’ve shown promise with their attack however, so the challenge shifts to turning those flashes into a full 90-minute performance. There’s also a personal storyline on the sidelines, as Louisville head coach Bev Yanez faces her former club, where she spent six seasons and won multiple Shields, and her previous coach, Laura Harvey.

North Carolina Courage vs Bay FC – 7 p.m. ET

How to Watch: NWSL+

North Carolina returns home unbeaten through two matches, but Bay FC will be a tricky early-season test. The Courage picked up a scoreless draw at Gotham midweek behind a standout performance from Kailen Sheridan, who recorded her first clean sheet for the club, and they’ll now look to pair that defensive stability with an attack led by Ashley Sanchez, who has already found the net twice this season. The last time these two clubs faced each other, the Courage came away with a 4-1 road win thanks to a Manaka Matsukubo hat trick.

Bay FC, however, has quietly been building something strong this season and are capable of making a statement. With a win, Bay would earn six points from its first three games for the first time in its history. Racheal Kundananji, the club’s all-time leader in both goals and assists, will hopefully play a large part in that statement, with recent additions Claire Hutton and Alex Pfeiffer adding to the offense. Defensively, Jordan Silkowitz has been key between the posts, closing in on a club shutout record. One big question mark for the visitors is who won’t be on the field: Bay will have to navigate this one without Taylor Huff due to suspension, putting even more pressure on their core to step up.

San Diego Wave vs Chicago Stars – 8:45 p.m. ET

How to Watch: ION

San Diego hits a special milestone at home this Saturday – regular-season game No. 100 – against a visiting Chicago who has experienced the rollercoaster of emotions known as the NWSL regular season – a 2-1 win followed by a 0-3 loss. The Wave just defeated Portland, one of the strongest looking teams of the season 3-1, thanks to Dudinha’s lightning-fast opener and another clutch contribution from rookie Lia Godfrey, who delivered her second straight game-winning goal. The third goal, by Melanie Barcenas, was the nail in the coffin for the Thorns, proving the Wave can sustain an assault all game long against even the toughest of opponents.

Chicago’s offense was clicking on Sunday but on Wednesday, failed to find its stride. Jordyn Huitema, Julia Grosso, and Ryan Gareis all have what it takes and have shown they know how to connect on the field, they just need to consistently prove it. Another fun storyline for NWSL lore fans: this is the first time Ludmila will face her former club and while she has yet to score for her new one, there’s no better game to do so than this one. With San Diego’s rebuild going according to plan and Chicago proving it can erupt offensively, this one is gonna be a fun game to end your Saturday.

Gotham FC vs Orlando Pride – 7 p.m. ET

How to Watch: ION

And to conclude what is sure to be an action-packed weekend: a 2025 semifinal rematch between the champions of 2024 and the champions of 2025. Gotham hosts the Pride Sunday evening after a tough loss versus the Denver Summit and before that, a scoreless draw. They’ll need a sharper edge – and the combined might of forwards Esther González and Rose Lavelle – against one of the league’s most in-form attacking sides.

Orlando was unstoppable on Wednesday night in their midweek match on the road versus Chicago. Winning 3-0, Barbra Banda, Jacqui Ovalle (whose goal was a SportsCenter Top Play of the Night), and Hannah Anderson all powered the Pride to a huge win and they’re bringing that mindset into Gotham’s domain for a little semifinal revenge. For Gotham, without having to consider travel days and two back-to-back home games, it’s an opportunity to fix some things on the training grounds and head into Sunday ready to reverse course.
