While half of the league turns its attention to a busy Wednesday slate, both Gotham FC and Washington Spirit are off from NWSL play as they compete in the final rounds of the 2025–26 Concacaf W Champions Cup. The semifinals take place Wednesday in Pachuca, Mexico, with the winners advancing to Saturday’s final and the losers playing in the third-place match. The tournament champion will also punch its ticket to January’s FIFA Champions Cup in Miami.

In the meantime, we have three matches in the U.S. and all of them count towards league points. Here’s what to expect from them.

Houston and San Diego meet for the second time already this season, with the Dash looking for a season sweep after a 1-0 Matchweek 1 win at Snapdragon Stadium. That victory came courtesy of a familiar face: former Wave midfielder Makenzy Robbe, who scored the lone goal against her old club. Houston would love to rediscover that offensive firepower after enduring a lengthy scoring drought from open play (473 minutes), relying instead on penalties to stay afloat offensively. Last weekend’s 3-0 loss to Kansas City extended Houston’s rough stretch, though the club returns home to a stadium where it has not lost since June 2025.

San Diego, meanwhile, enters on a high after an emotional late win over Washington, where rookie Trinity Byars scored her first NWSL goal before Kimmi Ascanio delivered an 89th-minute winner. They now sit atop the table once again after falling in the standings the weekend prior.

And one last thing: it’s a Van Zanten Derby! Though Houston's Kiki Van Zanten is out with an injury for the match, her younger sister, Mimi Van Zanten, broke through for her first NWSL goal in Matchweek 7. It may not be sister vs. sister on the pitch this time around, but the pride (and points) will still fuel any loving sibling rivalry.

Few teams in the league are tougher to break down right now than Portland. The Thorns enter Wednesday having not conceded a regular-season goal at home in 505 minutes, the fifth-longest shutout streak in NWSL history, and they have not lost at home since August 2025. But if there is one club that has consistently made life difficult for Portland lately, it is Bay FC. Bay scored first in each of the previous three meetings, and the last team to score a regular-season goal at Providence Park? Bay FC, thanks to Taylor Huff back in October. Portland will again be without Olivia Moultrie, who missed Sunday’s scoreless draw against Angel City with a minor injury after previously recording her first career brace against Bay in the clubs’ last meeting.

Last weekend, Bay fought to a disappointing draw against Boston, where Dorian Bailey scored her second goal of the season before Amanda Gutierres equalized from the spot. Jordan Silkowitz, Sydney Collins, and Claire Hutton have played every minute this season and will more than likely feature heavily for their club this Wednesday once again.

The Current roll into Los Angeles looking every bit like a contender again. Temwa Chawinga is back in terrifying form, scoring five goals in her last two games after a brace against Houston this past weekend. Michelle Cooper assisted both goals in that 3-0 win, giving the Current back-to-back shutouts for the first time this season and extending the club’s regular-season home unbeaten streak to 21 games.

L.A., however, has quietly been a difficult place for reigning Shield winners to visit. The club is unbeaten in four regular-season home games against the defending Shield holder and could use history being on their side. Angel City FC is desperately searching for momentum after a scoreless draw in Portland and a spate of losses in the weeks before it. With Maiara Niehues returning from suspension and Kansas City’s attack firing on all cylinders, this matchup is going to be one East Coasters will want to stay up for.
