For the second year in a row, the National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and Adobe will partner to elevate stories from the league’s amazing athletes and inspire the next generation of sports fans and creators. Together, both the NWSL and Adobe know that creativity is everywhere and are committed to championing stories, amplifying voices, empowering successes and exploring passions on and off the pitch.

"Sports, and in particular soccer, are a universal passion, offering a constant source of conversation, community, and fan connection no matter the country or language,” said Heather Freeland, Adobe’s Chief Brand Officer. “Through Adobe's partnership with the National Women’s Soccer League, we are thrilled to give fans the tools they need to celebrate the league, its teams and the players, all while helping to elevate the league and women’s sports."

"Through our partnership with Adobe, we aim to empower fans to amplify their creativity and celebrate the incredible stories within the NWSL community,” said NWSL Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer Julie Haddon. “Together, we're fostering a platform where fan voices shine, showcasing the unique spirit and passion that defines our sport."

Adobe’s Creator Club started in 2023 and is a key fan engagement program for the NWSL. The program is designed to give emerging creators with a passion for soccer the opportunity to earn commissions for projects. Each season through the partnership, participants will get exclusive, behind-the-scenes access to team and league moments to learn from and be inspired by creativity beyond the game. Using Adobe creative tools, the creators receive $10,000 USD to develop creative designs that capture the stories and momentum surrounding the NWSL.

In 2024, the program will feature five clubs, both esteemed and new, including Bay FC, Chicago Red Stars, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage and San Diego Wave FC, to highlight both local creators and the fans with unwavering support of their team. The creators will take fans behind-the-scenes to capture the moments that make the game, these players and this league special.

Beginning this month fans can use customizable NWSL templates in Adobe Express, the easy all-in-one content creation app. Fans can remix these Adobe Express custom templates with photos or videos powered by Adobe Firefly Generative AI, and share on their social media platforms, from the tailgate to the stadium to anywhere in between.

Beginning in August, each participating NWSL team will be paired with a local creator for a collaboration, resulting in unique designs and Express templates that capture the attributes of the team and the hometown fans. Both the NWSL templates and the five team specific templates are a fantastic tool for fans. From customizable graphics and posters to interactive digital content, the Express templates are a platform for fans to demonstrate their love and passion and connect with like-minded individuals around the world. By sharing on social media and engaging with online communities, this partnership and program with Adobe contributes to the growing visibility and recognition of the league and women's sports.

Fans have the power to make a difference by celebrating the achievements of athletes, uplifting each other and using creativity to share their passion for the game. Together, the NWSL and Adobe will continue to elevate women's soccer and inspire future generations of athletes to dream big and aim high, both on and off the pitch.
