There’s a reason it’s called Rowdy Audi Field, and the Washington Spirit’s 12th player made themselves known Saturday afternoon. The faithful didn’t leave disappointed.

The Washington Spirit are going back to the NWSL Championship.

While last week’s quarterfinal was decided in shootouts, the Spirit didn’t need extra time this time around, defeating the Portland Thorns in a dominant 2-0 performance.

The Rosemonde Kouassi and Gift Monday connection, yet again, proved to be undeniable.

It was a first-half Portland corner kick that ended in the game-winning goal for the Spirit. The ball was cleared immediately, headed out to the far sideline, and then Kouassi was off. In an electric run downfield, Kouassi brought the play from coast to coast, and with a touch past Portland keeper Mackenzie Arnold, Monday closed the deal for her second playoff goal in as many games.

From one end to the other, it was Kouassi’s second assist to Monday in the playoffs and the fifth time overall.

The Spirit controlled much of the match, and despite attempts for the Thorns to get something going on offense, there was just no break in the Washington defense.

Croix Bethune, who watched from the sidelines as a rookie as her teammates triumphed over Gotham in the 2024 semifinals and fell to the Pride in the Championship, got the last say. As Portland tried to regroup, Sam Hiatt sent a weak pass back to Arnold, and Behune jumped on it.

She got around Arnold and with a wide open net, Bethune buried it home

“I wanted to smash it just to show that energy,” she said after the game.

That energy is pent up from missing the back half of the 2024 season. She’s been waiting to make her mark on the playoffs and she wasn’t going to miss her chance.

“I feel like the past two games are the best games I’ve had all season and I'm just proud of myself,” Bethune said.

With the win, the Spirit punched their ticket to the NWSL Championship for the second year in a row and fourth time overall, tying – poetically – the Portland Thorns for most appearances in the final.

There was even more good news for Spirit fans, a purple-haired cherry on top of the win. Trinity Rodman returned to the pitch after being sidelined with an injury for a month.

In the 88th minute, Rodman came on for Sofia Cantore, and Audi Field burst into a raucous standing ovation. She nearly earned a third goal for Washington, which may have broken the sound barrier.

Rodman interrupted Coach Adrián González’s postgame interview, making sure he didn’t miss the team photo opp.

“We need our coach. We have to take a picture. Spirit’s awesome,” she said, pulling her coach off camera. “Great coach, great team. Let’s go!!”

Well after the game ended, the Washington fans remained, cheering their team on as they hyped up the crowd even more. Rodman, Esme Morgan, and Hal Hershfelt ran over to the supporters’ section, showing the diehard fans who make Audi Field a fortress their appreciation.

The Washington Spirit will head out to San Jose where they will play the winner of tomorrow’s semifinal between the Orlando Pride and Gotham FC.

You won’t want to miss that match. Watch tomorrow, Sunday, November 16 at 3 p.m. EST on ABC.
