It was a weekend of firsts in the NWSL – first goals, debuts, and historic milestones like the first players from Uganda, Mali, and Paraguay. It also brought the long awaited return of some familiar faces.

It was an action packed Week 1 to say the least, but here are some of the standout moments from the weekend.

Croix Bethune scored in her Kansas City debut on her 25th birthday, but that wasn’t the only landmark moment in the match. Ally Sentnor was traded to the Current last season, and she scored the game winner against her former team, the Utah Royals.

Though the Royals lost, 2-1, Tatumn Milazzo’s goal was the first in club history against Kansas City -- and she did so in her debut for Utah.

On Saturday, both the Boston Legacy and Denver Summit played their inaugural matches, and Melissa Kössler scored the Summit’s first goal in club history. Bay FC ultimately pulled out the win against the Summit, thanks in part to Alex Pfeiffer’s goal in her home debut. In Bay’s game-winning goal, Pfeiffer would again get involved, this time assisting.

In front of North Carolina’s biggest crowd for a home opener, Ashley Sanchez earned her first career brace to lead the Courage to a win over Racing Louisville. Goalkeeper Kailen Sheridan made her first appearance in goal for her new team and wasted no time making a splash – literally. In a moment of celebration for her teammate, Sheridan led the charge to hit Sanchez with a water attack during her postgame interview.

Mimi Van Zanten made her professional debut for the San Diego Wave against Kiki, her older sister, and the Houston Dash on Saturday, and Makenzy Robbe made her Houston debut in style against her former club, scoring the game's only goal. In Orlando, Brittany Ratcliffe made a statement in her debut for the Seattle Reign with the game-winning goal. Angel City came out firing against the Chicago Stars with a 4-0 that included a goal and assist performance from Ary Borges in her first appearance for the club.

History was made across the league too as three nations saw their first-ever NWSL representation. In the opening match of the weekend, Claudia Martínez subbed on for the Spirit in their home opener, becoming the first player from Paraguay to play in the league. The next day, at Boston Legacy inaugural home opener, Aïssata Traoré and Fauzia Najjemba made their debuts, marking the first NWSL appearances for players from Mali and Uganda respectively.

And finally, seven NWSL coaches took charge of their new teams for the first time. Robert Vilahamn opened his tenure in Portland with a win while Filipa Patão fell just short in Boston’s inaugural match. It was a winning debut for Chris Armas in Kansas City and Mak Lind in North Carolina while in San Jose, in contrasting debuts, Emma Coates managed Bay FC to victory against Nick Cushing’s expansion team Denver Summit. And to close out the weekend of firsts, Martin Sjögren’s Chicago Stars were defeated in Los Angeles against a ruthless Angel City.

It wasn’t just newcomers who made headlines in Week 1. Familiar faces returned to the pitch, not just for the first time this season, but since taking time away from the game.

Portland’s Sophia Wilson made her first appearance in a regular season game since November 2024. Just six months after giving birth to her daughter, Wilson is back on the pitch, something even the fans at Rowdy Audi could respect.

Gotham’s Esther González scored the game-winning goal in her first game since becoming a mother. Her partner gave birth to their first child in January.

Barbra Banda ended 2025 on SEI, but she wasted no time in her return at the Pride home opener. She picked up right where she started and scored the first goal of the season for Orlando.

The last game of the weekend saw a hopeful moment: the return of Savy King. After experiencing a medical incident on the field last season, King underwent open heart surgery and spent the time away from the game advocating for people to learn CPR. Sunday night, however, it was all game, and King returned to a warm welcome from the Los Angeles crowd.

With this much happening through Week 1, it’s sure to be a wild ride the rest of the 2026 season. Imagine missing that?
