NEW YORK (August 2, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

NEW YORK (August 2, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

Seven teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including a pair of selections from Angel City FC, NJ/NY Gotham FC, the North Carolina Courage and Racing Louisville FC, and one player from the Chicago Red Stars, Kansas City Current and the Washington Spirit. This month’s Best XI marks Racing centerback Abby Erceg’s second-straight selection to the team and Gotham FC rookie Jenna Nighswonger’s second nomination of the season.

GK – Emily Boyd (CHI): The Seattle, Washington native earned her first starts of the 2023 campaign in July, appearing in four matches across the month. Making 19 saves, Boyd’s most impressive stop came in the Red Stars’ 0-0 draw against Kansas City on July 29 when she made a PK save in the 24th minute to keep the game level. She also earned a pair of wins in goal at the beginning the month, including a 1-0 win over San Diego Wave FC and a 1-0 victory against the Houston Dash.

D – Malia Berkely (NCC): En route to her first nomination to the Best XI, Berkely played in every minute of action on the Courage backline in July and scored the first goal of her 2023 campaign in the club’s 5-0 win over the Orlando Pride on July 29.

D – Abby Erceg (LOU): Earning her second-straight nomination to the Best XI this season, Erceg continued her strong play in Racing Louisville’s defensive half. Appearing in three of four matches this month, Erceg recorded more than 50 tackles, 43 clearances and 22 interceptions.

D – Sarah Gorden (LA): Appearing in every minute of play throughout July, Gorden made just shy of 60 tackles, registered eight blocks and intercepted 22 feeds on the back line for Angel City.

D – Paige Monaghan (LOU): The Roxbury, New Jersey native has found her groove in her first season with Racing Louisville, tallying goals in three of four matches, including a game-winner in the club’s 2-1 win over the Current, to lead Racing’s scoring effort throughout the month.

M – Savannah McCaskill (LA): In a productive month for the Angel City midfielder, McCaskill recorded her second career brace and a clutch game-tying tally in July. McCaskill is now Angel City’s all-time leading scorer in the Challenge Cup, regular season and all tournaments with three, nine and 12, respectively.

M – Narumi Miura (NCC): The Japanese international scored her first career goal with the sixth and final tally in North Carolina’s 6-0 shutout of the Washington Spirit on July 22. Her goal helped set a new Challenge Cup record for goals scored in a three-game span, which the Courage now own with 13 tallies.

M – Jenna Nighswonger (NJNY): With a pair of goals in Challenge Cup play this month, Nighswonger earned her second Best XI nomination of the season. Her first goal of the month was a crucial game-tying tally that kickstarted a 3-1 comeback win over the Orlando Pride on July 23.

F – Ashley Hatch (WAS): The Spirit forward tallied a trio of goals throughout the month, including the opening goal in a 2-2 draw with San Diego and a brace in Washington’s 4-2 comeback victory against Gotham FC.

F – Kristen Hamilton (KCC): Hamilton made tournament history in July when she became the first player to record a hat trick in Challenge Cup play with a trio of goals in Kansas City’s 3-1 win over Houston. The forward now ranks second in tournament scoring behind Current teammate Debinha with 10 goals in 19 matches.

F – Midge Purce (NJNY): Returning to full form following an injury, Purce tallied a goal and an assist to earn her first scoring contributions since April. The forward also recorded 12 shots across Gotham FC’s four matches in July.

Mastercard and the NWSL launched the Best XI of the Month awards platform with the First Team and Second Team honors for the 22 top players of the league after the 2021 season. Mastercard believes that our world is full of brilliant possibilities and unlocking the potential in every person across all parts of their life is what Priceless is all about. The development of the Best XI is a further commitment from the company to connect NWSL fans to the league and the athletes they love.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.
