NEW YORK (June 16, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced a collaboration with the Marsha P. Johnson Institute (MPJI), as part of this weekend’s commemoration of Juneteenth. The partnership, which is part of the NWSL’s ongoing efforts to expand its Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion programs and initiatives, will focus on promoting equality and social justice within the sports community and society at large.

NEW YORK (June 16, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced a collaboration with the Marsha P. Johnson Institute (MPJI), as part of this weekend’s commemoration of Juneteenth. The partnership, which is part of the NWSL’s ongoing efforts to expand its Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion programs and initiatives, will focus on promoting equality and social justice within the sports community and society at large.

Ahead of this weekend’s games, all NWSL players will wear a custom Juneteenth T-shirt, designed in partnership with the Black Women’s Player Collective, for pre-match walkouts and the singing of both the Black National Anthem, “Lift Every Voice and Sing”, and the National Anthem. The Juneteenth T-shirt will also be available for purchase on NWSLShop.com. A portion of all net proceeds will go to both the BWPC and MPJI in support of each organization’s respective initiatives and advocacy work. “Sports have the extraordinary power to transcend boundaries, break down barriers and unite individuals in pursuit of a common goal,” said NWSL Senior Director of People and Inclusion Dr. Andria Johnson. “The NWSL is committed to harnessing that same power and using our platform to advocate and bring awareness to the causes we value off the pitch. As we recognize Juneteenth and Pride, we’re honored to link arms with the Black Women’s Player Collective and the Marsha P. Johnson Institute in our shared goal of challenging prejudices, lifting up the voices of marginalized communities and creating an equitable future for all.” The BWPC, an organization created by the Black players in the National Women's Soccer League, works to advance opportunities for Black girls in sport and beyond, elevate the image, value and representation of Black women as athletes and leaders across industries, and establish a network of support that expands access to diverse career paths before and after playing. MPJI works towards eradicating violence towards members of the BLACK trans community through broad advocacy efforts, providing fellowship opportunities, and creating campaigns and coalitions to raise awareness of underreported violence towards BLACK trans people and create lasting change. “The National Women's Soccer League is an extraordinary force that deserves our deepest gratitude. They embody tenacity and unwavering dedication to the fight for equity,” said MPJI CEO, Elle Moxley. “The strength of NWSL is unmatched, and their platform uplifting organizations like MPJI is a testament to the urgent need for change and continued support of the mission to expand Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion. Aligning with such a formidable league, and standing alongside powerful women, is a profound honor.” MPJI was named for the late LGBTQIA+ liberation activist Marsha P. Johnson, who was a prominent figure in the Stonewall uprising of 1969. Johnson advocated on behalf of LGBTQIA+ youth and those impacted by H.I.V and AIDS, in addition to pushing for gay and transgender rights. Johnson was an activist, self-identified drag queen, performer, and survivor. The NWSL’s Juneteenth T-Shirts can be purchased through the official NWSL Shop here.
