Gotham may be No. 8, but they’re not the underdog. They’re going to the NWSL Championship. And it just had to be Jaedyn Shaw who had the final say.

In a semifinal match against the Pride in Orlando that was even all the way around, it came down to second half stoppage time. Just when it looked like the extra time fun would continue from last weekend into the second semifinal game, a foul on Rose Lavelle changed it all.

Shaw’s free kick from just outside the 18” sailed past an Orlando defense that limited Gotham to just one shot on goal – the shot that led to the game winner – and into the net.

The newest member of Gotham FC has been the biggest differencemaker. Shaw has been involved with all three of Gotham’s playoff goals – scoring two and assisting another.

“I live for these moments and I’m just really happy I could make an impact for our team,” Shaw said after the game. “I love this team so much.”

For two weeks in a row, Gotham came into a venue that historically favored their hosts. The Current had only lost once before at home, and Orlando had never lost in a home playoff game.

But the team from New Jersey was determined to buck the trend each time and won their league-leading fourth playoff game on the road.

Of course, Orlando didn’t go down without a fight. In the 100th minute, the Pride got their shot in almost a mirror of Gotham’s goal, but Ann-Katrin Berger said not on her watch. The Pride couldn’t capitalize on their opportunities and will miss their shot at reclaiming their title.

For just one more week, the Orlando Pride will be the reigning champions.

Only two teams have advanced to the championship as the last seed. WNY Flash advanced in 2016 as the No. 4 seed – when only four teams made the playoffs – and in 2023, Gotham advanced as the No. 6. Now, Gotham FC has repeated history and will advance to the NWSL Championship as the No. 8 seed.

“This team is so gritty. This team fights to the very end,” Shaw said. “This team plays for each other and it’s contagious.”

Next week, Gotham will take on the Washington Spirit in a rematch of the heated 2024 semifinal game in D.C. that ended with a shootout and heartbreaking loss for the visitors.

The NWSL Championship will take place on November 22 at PayPal Park in San Jose, CA. Washington Spirit versus Gotham FC will kick off at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT on CBS and Paramount+.
