Mission X is complete for the Nigerian women Super Falcons national team.

Nigeria walked away with its 10th Women's Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON) in a comeback win over Morocco on July 26, and much like the other global tournaments over the summer, NWSL players were at the scene of the championship.

When Houston Dash’s Michelle Alozie and Bay FC’s Asisat Oshoala lace up to go head-to-head this weekend as NWSL returns to play, it’ll be a Nigeria national team reunion. From Oshoala opening up scoring for Nigeria with their first goal of the tournament to Alozie’s goal that sent the team to the finals, both were putting their best foot forward for their country.

With the UEFA Women’s Euro 2025 and Copa America Feminina also taking place during the international break, Alozie told ESPN Africa that it is crucial that eyes are on African players, too.

“I think it’s really important for people to get eyes on African footballers, especially with a big tournament like WAFCON,” Alozie said.

There’s been a shift in recent years. Of the top three players in the NWSL Golden Boot race, two are African players (Temwa Chawinga and Barbra Banda). Alozie pointed to her Nigerian teammate, Oshoala, as an example of a player who is changing the narrative of African players on the global stage.

Before joining Bay FC, Oshoala made 162 appearances with Barcelona, scoring 117 goals.

“She’s done so much for African football … one of the few people who had spearheaded the way for international football to look at African players,” she said.

Alozie and Oshoala weren’t the only NWSL players fighting for their countries in WAFCON. Bay FC’s Racheal Kundananji and Orlando Pride’s Barbra Banda, Grace Chanda, and Prisca Chilufya all represented Zambia. Banda scored three goals, as did Kundananji, who also notched an assist. Gotham’s Stella Nyamekye also suited up for Ghana, while the first international signing for Boston Legacy FC, Aïssata Traoré, earned two goals for her native Mali.

“I think it is so important to see that African players are excelling in the NWSL, and then coming and excelling at WAFCON, just like Banda and Racheal Kundananji,” she said.

As players return from all over the world to return to NWSL action, there is little question about how the talent stacks up on the international stage.
