MALMO, SWEDEN & NEW YORK, NY (April 24, 2024) - Spiideo (www.spiideo.com) the global leader in AI automated sports video, announces the expansion of its partnership with the NWSL (www.nwslsoccer.com), the top professional women’s soccer league in the world - to provide multi-angle AI automated capture of high-quality video, together with data breakdowns on all games across the league.

The renewed agreement builds upon the already successful league exchange initiative responsible for equipping all stadiums across the league with Spiideo’s advanced AI camera systems. Upon extending the agreement, teams, players, and coaches within the NWSL will continue to have access to Spiideo’s cloud-based League Exchange video platform, now enhanced with AutoData™ game breakdowns, which include detailed player actions based on deep event tags, as well as game events. These features will provide teams with the information needed to identify game-changing moments, refine tactics, enhance player development and ultimately, elevate the standard of play across the entire league.

A key addition to the partnership agreement includes the installation of two additional AI cameras at every stadium in the league. Offering unrivaled seamless multi-angle video in the cloud, the added AI cameras will be located behind the goals to equip teams with live high-definition footage across every game, providing insights from a unique and advantageous perspective. In addition to the cameras, many teams have also independently purchased Spiideo’s video analysis platform Spiideo Perform, to analyze every game and practice with panoramic video, interactive overlays data visualization tools, for in-depth performance analysis.

Acknowledging the NWSL’s investment in video analytics technology, Spiideo’s adoption across the league reinforces the intent to elevate competition and foster growth in women’s soccer. Taking a league-wide approach, the partnership strengthens teams by delivering an AI resource that is specifically designed to give teams an extra edge to develop and maximize their overall performance and unleash the full potential of players and teams.

"Our collaboration with Spiideo has been transformative, and this extended partnership will continue to enrich our league's ecosystem," said Chief Sporting Director Tatjana Haenni. "With these tools at our disposal, our clubs are continuing to enhance on-field tactics and strategic development, strengthen the standard of play across the league and set new benchmarks for excellence in our sport."

The contract extension follows the NWSL’s completion of a $240 million set of media rights agreements that will provide an unprecedented level of exposure to women’s pro soccer in the U.S. With the league signing four-year deals with CBS, ESPN, Amazon and Scripp Sports, making it the largest media deal in women’s sports history. This deal, married with Spiideo’s partnership extension, underlines the league's desire to support the next generation of talent and fan engagement.

"Spiideo has always been at the forefront of sports technology, and our continued partnership with the NWSL underscores our commitment to advancing sports, and more specifically women’s soccer," said Patrik Olsson, CEO and Co-Founder of Spiideo. "By providing advanced AI tools for analysis and production, we aim to support the NWSL in its mission to showcase the talent, passion, and excitement of women's soccer."

About Spiideo

Spiideo delivers astonishingly simple, powerful, and innovative solutions to the global sports community that shape the future of sports video production, analysis, and consumption.

Spiideo’s fixed and mobile camera systems for both indoor and outdoor sports, feature automatic recording, AutoFollow™, and virtual panorama technology that integrates directly with both Spiideo Perform and Spiideo Play.

By living in Spiideo, sports organizations and media-rights holders are able to eliminate manual filming processes, analyze the performance in a single platform, share footage from the cloud, and automate broadcasting. More than 2,000 organizations are currently using Spiideo, including teams in the Premier League, NHL, Serie A, MLS, NBA, Ligue 1, NCAA, and Bundesliga. Spiideo’s solution is also used by customers such as the USL, NWSL, Sweden’s Allsvenskan, Iceland’s Pepsi Max League, Denmark’s Metalligen, and various media-rights holders throughout both Europe and North America.

Spiideo was founded in Malmö, in the south of Sweden, in 2012. Since then, the company has expanded and now has international offices in the UK, US, China, & Germany.

About National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL)

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

For media inquiries, please contact:

Niklas Bergdahl

niklas.bergdahl@spiideo.com

+46 760 333 030

Kirsten Brierley

Kbrierley@nwslsoccer.com

+1 631-617-7093
