NEW YORK (January 31, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League and Adobe today announced a multi-year partnership dedicated to uplifting the stories, voices and passions of players and sports enthusiasts alike. As the league’s Official Creativity Partner, the new sponsorship will bring together creativity and women’s sports in a unique way to advance equity and level the playing field for all.

NEW YORK (January 31, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League and Adobe today announced a multi-year partnership dedicated to uplifting the stories, voices and passions of players and sports enthusiasts alike. As the league’s Official Creativity Partner, the new sponsorship will bring together creativity and women’s sports in a unique way to advance equity and level the playing field for all.

Adobe will empower all NWSL athletes through unique Brand Building Workshops, providing players with access to Adobe’s creative and digital marketing tools, personal brand training sessions and connecting them to marketing experts, to enable every player to develop their own brand and share their stories. “The remarkable athletes who play in the NWSL are some of the most accomplished soccer players in the world, but the players of the NWSL are more than just athletes,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “They’re business-owners, parents, partners, social activists, community leaders, the list goes on. This partnership with Adobe will help our athletes tell their stories in creative ways and truly showcase the diverse and dynamic individuals who take the pitch each week in our league.” Adobe and the NWSL are also launching ‘Creator Class’, an inaugural professional creativity program designed to give emerging women creators with a passion for soccer in creative fields, the opportunity to earn commissions for projects. Each season through the partnership, four Creator Class participants will get exclusive, behind-the-scenes access to NWSL team and league moments, to learn from and be inspired by creativity beyond the game and receive $10,000 USD to develop creative projects using Adobe products and inspired by their passion for the game. Adobe will commission independent women filmmakers to document the Creator Class, taking a behind-the-scenes look to capture the creative process, and share the unique experiences so that fans everywhere can be inspired by their stories.
