The reigning champs just bolstered their midfield in a big – maybe even magical – way.

In a historic transfer, the Pride acquired Mexico’s Lizbeth Jacqueline Ovalle. Orlando broke the transfer fee record set when Arsenal paid Liverpool $1.3 million for Olivia Smith last month. She will join the Pride upon the approval of her P1 visa and International Transfer Certificate.

Ovalle, known as “La Maga” (“The Magician), joins the NWSL after spending her entire professional career with Liga MX’s Femenil Tigres. The 25-year-old left winger broke the internet earlier this year when she pulled off a “scorpion kick” goal, a goal scored while airborne and diving forward and using the back of her heel to propel the ball into the net.

Since joining Tigres in 2017, Ovalle has helped the team to six league titles and three Campeon de Campeonas cups. In 294 appearances, she earned 136 goals and 103 assists. For the Mexican national team, Ovalle has scored 20 goals in 81 appearances.

“I’m very happy to join Orlando Pride,” Ovalle said in a press release. “I’m coming with the clear objective of winning titles and leaving a mark with the Club. I’m ready to give it my all and help Orlando Pride continue to be a leading team.”

Needless to say, Pride fans are thrilled that Ovalle will soon be suiting up for their team, but the transfer also caused a stir in the global soccer community writ large.

Before leaving for the U.S., Ovalle is expected to compete in the inaugural Liga MX Femenil All-Star game against Barcelona on August 22. Her teammate Anika Rodríguez told reporters that she hopes fans give Ovalle the sendoff she deserves.

"Well, if that becomes real, I hope everyone fills the stadium because there is no player who deserves a farewell in the best way more than her,” she said. “This match is something special and historic – like her. The entire league wishes her the best."

The Orlando Pride play their Week 17 game against Angel City on a rare Thursday night. Whenever Ovalle makes her Pride debut, it is sure to be pure magic for Orlando fans.
