NEW YORK (October 5, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced the promotion of Julie Haddon to Chief Marketing & Commercial Officer after having served as the league’s Chief Marketing Officer since 2022. In this new and expanded role, Haddon will oversee the integration of the league’s Commercial, Broadcast, and Marketing divisions under one business unit, creating the Marketing & Commercial Organization, that is focused on maximizing brand, fan and revenue growth for the league.

NEW YORK (October 5, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced the promotion of Julie Haddon to Chief Marketing & Commercial Officer after having served as the league’s Chief Marketing Officer since 2022. In this new and expanded role, Haddon will oversee the integration of the league’s Commercial, Broadcast, and Marketing divisions under one business unit, creating the Marketing & Commercial Organization, that is focused on maximizing brand, fan and revenue growth for the league.

The integration of the Commercial, Broadcast and Marketing teams is critical step for the league in building the future of the league for both the players and the fans as the organization continues to drive record-setting viewership numbers and shatter attendance record in its historic 2023 season. By integrating marketing, media and monetization functions together in a new organization, the NWSL will offer sponsors innovative brand platforms and new media opportunities to reach and engage the NWSL fans. “We’re excited and proud to have Julie lead this innovative organizational structure that will catalyze the NWSL’s next iteration of growth,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “Julie has demonstrated that her contributions to the NWSL can be scaled alongside the growth of the league. It’s our responsibility to continue to grow alongside our fanbase, and this new Marketing & Commercial Organization will serve as the foundation of that commitment.” Haddon joined the NWSL in August of 2022 as the league’s first ever Chief Marketing Officer, with the league seeing significant growth in her first year. At the halfway mark of the 2023 season, the league saw a 48% increase in attendance, while unique streaming viewership on Paramount jumped 50% and total viewership on CBS rose by 21% year-over-year. On September 3, the league set a new regular season attendance record with 1,060,978 fans attending matches through Week 18 of the campaign. As the NWSL continues to grow, new expansion teams have been announced in Utah, the Bay Area and Boston, with the latter two clubs joining the league for record-setting expansion fees. “The women’s sports landscape is experiencing a long overdue momentum shift in growth and engagement and I’m excited to help the NWSL capitalize on that momentum in this expanded role,” said Haddon. “Anchored by our remarkable athletes, passionate fanbase and forward-thinking leadership, the NWSL has all the key elements needed to continue its extraordinary growth. Bringing the marketing, broadcast and business development functions together will unlock new and exciting opportunities to further develop the NWSL’s fan, brand and revenue streams as we continue taking our league and our sport to the next level.”

ABOUT THE NATIONAL WOMEN'S SOCCER LEAGUE

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, OL Reign, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

MEDIA CONTACT

NWSL: Kirsten Brierley, kbrierley@nwslsoccer.com

FINN PARTNERS: Madelyn Flax, Madelyn.flax@finnpartners.com
