New York football or New York futbol? Why not both?

Fans tuning into the “Manningcast” during this week’s Monday Night Football matchup between the New England Patriots and the New York Giants were treated to a special guest: Gotham’s Midge Purce.

Purce, who is on a never-ending hunt for sidequests, found herself giving color commentary alongside two proud NWSL team owners, Eli and Peyton Manning. And the commentary sure was colorful!

Here are some of the top moments from Purce’s time on the “Manningcast.”

A good first impression is everything, and when asked how Eli, who is a part owner of Gotham FC, did, she didn’t hold back.

“We were all caught a bit off guard,” Purce said. “We thought he’d be just a little cooler if I’m being honest.”

Eli feigns offense, but Peyton jumped on the chance to dunk on his brother.

“Eli, you’re a little odd,” Purce said.

“Not a little odd. Very, very odd,” Peyton said.

In “Midge’s Fashion Corner,” the Manning brothers shared some choice photos for judgement. It was an act of vulnerability that should be commended.

With a dad jean, flannel, and a statement hat, Purce gave Peyton a passing grade.

“I think this was in for the time, if I’m being honest,” she said.

“This was last week,” Eli joked.

When presented with Peyton’s prom mullet, Purce shocked them all with her approval.

“I don’t hate a mullet,” she said. “Eli, this isn’t going how you thought it would.”

Peyton brought out the receipts with this one, showing footage of Eli’s reaction to both a Gotham FC goal and the Broncos winning Super Bowl 50. Let’s just say he made his loyalties clear.

“Midge, my question is do you think Eli loves Gotham FC more than his own brother,” Peyton asked.

“I would say the tapes don’t lie, Peyton. I’m so sorry. How do you explain this? Eli, this is bad.”

“The Gotham FC goal was a big goal. Very important, I was with my kids. I didn’t know if they were going for two. There were a lot of things going on.”

The season may be over, but Purce is only just beginning her offseason sidequest tour. Where in the world will she pop up next?
