Here’s what fans have to look forward to this week!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Where to watch in select territories

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. North Carolina Courage - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

It’s been 44 days since the season opener and Orlando are still unbeaten with three draws and three straight wins. What’s scarier (for opponents) was they played most of those matches without Barbra Banda, who started (and scored and assisted) last match. North Carolina has their work cut out for them this Wednesday evening but they also have a few weapons of their own: Ashley Sanchez and Tyler Lussi (and her biceps).

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Washington Spirit - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

NWSL fans who enjoyed the Mal Swanson/Sophia Smith content last weekend can look forward to the Mal Swanson/Trinity Rodman content this Wednesday evening as the second matchup of the night starts in Chicago with the Red Stars hosting the Washington Spirit. Both sides are coming off of hard-fought losses last weekend but the panic button hasn’t been hit yet for either: they’ll be looking to implement lessons learned and conserve energy because they both have tough road matchups this weekend.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Portland Thorns FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBS Sports Network

The good news for Bay FC is, in 6 matches, no one has been able to keep them off of the score sheet. They also aren’t hurting for chances, as they made 22 attempts last weekend in their away loss against San Diego Wave. Portland, meanwhile, are in competitive form once again and have been able to snatch a few wins in the last few weekends. Both teams are searching for desperately needed points this week as the Bay hosts the Thorns for the first matchup between the two clubs. Will Bay FC convert more of their chances or will Stanford grad Sophia Smith’s goal scoring prowess prove the deciding factor once again?

Matchup: Utah Royals FC vs. Angel City FC - 9:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Angel City is on the road this Friday and although they lost their home match against the Current last weekend, there was much to be proud of both offensively and defensively. The Royals, on the other hand, desperately need all 3 points from this matchup before they head out on the road for 3 matches in a row. They’ve been able to compete against and even beat tough teams before but recently, they’ve struggled getting rookie star forward Ally Sentnor involved in the attack. If they can turn things around this Friday, the sky's the limit.

Matchup: Seattle Reign FC vs. San Diego Wave - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime

It's the Cooler Clásico, a time for fans to congregate and cheer for their favorite team led by one of two coaches in the league who have made perching on coolers an art form. The clash between Reign FC and Wave has been a cherished fixture since Wave's inception in 2021, and this Friday's showdown, airing on Prime Video, promises to be an unmissable spectacle. Keep an eye on teenage forward sensation Jaedyn Shaw, fresh off her game-winning goal for the Wave last weekend, as she strives to maintain her stellar performance and break more league records. Meanwhile, Reign FC, despite facing a scoring drought, are determined to flip the script and deliver an exciting Friday night for their loyal fans.

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. North Carolina Courage - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

Gotham FC are home against Saturday evening and hosting North Carolina Courage, who was the victor in the last matchup between the two on March 30th. A month is a lot of time, however: the recently debuted Rose Lavelle, one of Gotham FC’s newest offseason acquisitions, was the difference maker in her match last weekend and could potentially do so again this weekend. Will the Courage sweep Gotham FC this season or will the home team come away the victor?

Matchup: Portland Thorns FC vs. Washington Spirit - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

It’s a quick turnaround for both squads, both having played a match Wednesday evening, but it’s surely one of the most anticipated fixtures of the week as the current leading goal scorer, Sophia Smith, takes on one of the staunchest defenses in the league. The Thorns will also have their work cut out for them as they attempt to keep rookie sensation Croix Bethune off of the score sheet. Bethune's knack for scoring both close-range stunners and long-range missiles poses a multifaceted threat that will demand vigilant defending and potential tactical adjustments from the Thorns. All 3 points are at stake and depending on how Wednesday plays out for both sides, they may be desperately needed.

Matchup: Houston Dash vs. Kansas City Current - 1:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBS/Paramount+

Kansas City are the team to beat this season, it seems, having collected 16 points from their first 6 matches of the season. The only other teams to accomplish that in league history went on to win the Shield that year. What’s worse (for their opponents) is they’re scoring a lot – 3.33 goals a match on average – are stingy with giving them up, and with 11 goal scorers this season so far, have multiple weapons to deploy. But the Dash have one of the best goalkeepers in the league, Jane Campbell, which may prove to be the difference maker this Sunday afternoon as the Dash play host for the first match of the day.

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. Racing Louisville FC - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

One club’s unbeaten streak could potentially end this Sunday (unless Orlando’s streak ends on May 1st) as Orlando Pride hosts Racing Louisville FC, with 3 points at stake. In their last face-off, Orlando left Louisville fans stunned by mounting a remarkable comeback from a two-goal deficit, salvaging a draw in the dying minutes of the match. The question is: has Louisville absorbed the lessons from their past encounter, or will Orlando’s offseason acquisition, Barbra Banda – who wasn’t present for the last matchup between the two clubs – prove a difference maker?

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Chicago Red Stars - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

There are two scenarios that may impact Bay FC’s second home match in a week: either they're left drained from their relentless pursuit of Sophia Smith for a full ninety minutes on Wednesday, leaving them vulnerable against Mal Swanson's Sunday onslaught. Or, fueled by the momentum of a resounding victory against their northern neighbors, they rally with an inspired effort to once again clinch three much-needed points. Regardless of the outcome, fans in the Bay are in for a treat as two teams with some of the most exciting offensive players face off for the first time in the final matchup of the weekend.
