SEATTLE (October 20, 2023) -

A late tally in the 87th minute from forward Veronica Latsko was the difference Friday night at Lumen Field as fourth-seeded OL Reign defeated No. 5 Angel City FC, 1-0, to advance to the semifinals of the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light.

SEATTLE (October 20, 2023) - A late tally in the 87th minute from forward Veronica Latsko was the difference Friday night at Lumen Field as fourth-seeded OL Reign defeated No. 5 Angel City FC, 1-0, to advance to the semifinals of the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light.

The opening match of the postseason featured a physical battle that remained scoreless through the first 86 minutes. OL Reign broke the stalemate late in the second half when Latsko found the back of the net off a service from defender Phoebe McClernon to notch her first career playoff goal. The late tally created by the pair of University of Virginia alumnae was just enough for the home team, who edged the visiting expansion side by a one-goal margin to secure the OL Reign’s first playoff victory since 2015. With a clean sheet in the match, 23-year-old goalkeeper Claudia Dickey is the first Reign keeper to record a playoff shutout since Hope Solo in the 2015 semifinals. Making their seventh semifinal appearance, the three-time NWSL Shield winners will now head south to face top-seeded San Diego Wave FC in a 9:30 p.m. ET matchup on Sunday, November 5, at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego. On the other side of the playoff bracket, the No. 3 North Carolina Courage and No. 6-ranked NJ/NY Gotham FC will close out the quarterfinal round on Sunday, October 22, when the two sides meet at WakeMed Soccer Park in Cary, North Carolina. Kickoff for the contest airing on CBS Sports Network is slated for 7 p.m. ET. The winner of the match will move on to face No. 2 Portland Thorns FC in the earlier of the two semifinal matches set for November 5, with kickoff scheduled for 7 p.m. ET at Providence Park in Portland. Both semifinal matchups will air on CBS Sports Network. The 2023 Ally NWSL Championship is set to air live in primetime at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11 on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+. Additional coverage details will be announced at a later date. Tickets for the match are available here. All playoff matches, including the Championship match, will stream internationally outside the U.S. on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.
