The start of the 2026 NWSL season is so close yet so far. Just weeks stand between fans and the return of their beloved players and clubs.

While we eagerly await to see what stories unfold, ESPN is reminding fans just what is at stake with a look back at the 2025 NWSL season through three very different lenses.

A new series “NWSL: The Final Third” will be available on Wednesday, February 25. The three-part ESPN Original series follows the Washington Spirit, Kansas City Current, and Angel City FC as the clubs navigate the twists and turns of the 2025 NWSL Championship.

The Spirit made it to the dance in back-to-back years, losing to the Orlando Pride in 2024. As they make an electric postseason run, ESPN’s cameras are following along. In addition to Trinity Rodman’s returning from injury, it’s a comeback that comes head-to-head with Gotham FC’s Cinderella story in the Championship.

Angel City FC entered a period of transformation with sights set on offseason moves. With the loss of key players, including the retirements of legends Ali Riley and Christen Press, the focus turns to the young talent like Riley Tiernan and Savy King. King, however, is going through a battle of her own after collapsing on the field in May.

The Kansas City Current steamrolled their way to the 2025 NWSL Shield in a record-setting, unstoppable regular season performance. This story of sheer dominance is what happens when talent meets investment with a strong undercurrent of joy. Led by the Celly Queen, Lo’eau LaBonta, Kansas City is a model for what excellence looks like.

“The Final Third” takes viewers on a ride worthy of NWSL chaos as three vastly different clubs navigate the end of the 2025 season and build lasting legacy. From the pitch to training to boardroom conversations and smack talking on the field, the docuseries shows exactly what it takes to make it in the NWSL.

The series will be available on ESPN+ on February 25, and all three episodes will debut on ESPN2 on Monday, March 2 at 9 p.m. The series will be available to stream on Disney+ on March 2.
