The 2024 U-17 Women’s World Cup group stage has seen five young NWSL stars shine on the global stage: Angel City FC’s Kennedy Fuller and Casey Phair, San Diego Wave FC’s Melanie Barcenas and Kimmi Ascanio, and Seattle Reign FC’s Ainsley McCammon. And as the group stage wraps up, the USYWNT will advance to the knockout rounds, while South Korea, despite Phair’s performance, is headed home.

The United States opened their campaign on October 16 with a hard-fought 2-1 loss to Spain. San Diego Wave FC forward Melanie Barcenas gave the U.S. a spark, leveling the match with a goal in the 22nd minute—her first of the tournament—off an assist from Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller. Despite strong efforts from all four NWSL players, the U.S. couldn’t hold on as Spain secured the win.

Angel City FC forward Casey Phair opened South Korea’s campaign on October 16 with a crucial penalty conversion in the 26th minute, securing a 1-1 draw against Colombia. Phair’s clinical finish gave South Korea an early advantage, but they couldn’t hold off Colombia’s equalizer.

The U.S. rebounded on October 19, defeating Colombia 2-0 to notch their first World Cup win. Kennedy Fuller again played a pivotal role, scoring from the penalty spot in the 58th minute to seal the victory. All four NWSL stars—Fuller, Barcenas, McCammon, and Ascanio—started the match and were instrumental in the result.

South Korea’s second match on October 19 was a much tougher test, as they fell 5-0 to a dominant Spain side. Phair featured in the starting lineup for the second consecutive game, but South Korea struggled to find answers against Spain’s relentless attack.

All five NWSL players started for their national teams in the final group stage match of the tournament and this time, they faced off against each other. Unfortunately for South Korea, still reeling from a heavy defeat against one of the best teams in the tournament, they were again outmatched by a high pressing United States. San Diego Wave’s Melanie Barcenas opened the scoring early, finding the back of the net in the 1st minute with a long distance shot. Less than ten minutes later, she was again instrumental in a goal, demonstrating her quick footwork to shake the South Korean defender to send in a pass for Angel City FC’s Kennedy Fuller to tap in. Early in the second half, Barcenas scored her second goal of the match and third of the tournament, picking up a loose ball and sending it past the goalkeeper.

With their results, the United States will advance to the quarterfinals. They will play Nigeria U-17 on Saturday, October 26th at 3:30 PM ET.
