At their best, sports and storytelling have the power to connect people and communities, and that was on full display at a Columbus gay bar on June 25.

In partnership with The Moth, the NWSL hosted an intimate night of storytelling about Pride, identity, and sport. Proud and Loud, presented by Tylenol, featured a trio of speakers who crafted stories with The Moth’s network of storytelling coaches to share at the event – with no notes. All proceeds were donated to Athlete Ally.

The storytellers – Sinead Farrelly, Kika Toulouse, and Miranda Freedman – worked independently of each other, but it should come as no surprise that all three found similar themes as their stories unfolded.

Farrelly, who originally retired from the NWSL in 2016 before returning in 2023 for a season, was fresh off a European adventure and worked with The Moth senior director Kate Tellers while she traveled.

“It almost feels like a different kind of adventure,” Farrelly said. “It’s been an internal adventure where I worked in collaboration with other people… It’s opened the door to me wanting to explore more writing, storytelling, and speaking.”

Though Farrelly shared a public statement when she retired initially, the event allowed her to share how her relationship with soccer shifted over the years after a car accident, dealing with a concussion and whiplash, and the gift of hindsight.

“It feels really healing, important, and cool to be able to talk about it more,” she said. “It’s a cathartic moment as well as a moment of healing to be able to speak about it.”

That catharsis also brought a reconnection. Farrelly and Toulouse were teammates at the University of Virginia, and though they fell out of touch, sharing stories offered new perspectives.

“Sinead was the star, and everything seemed so incredible on the outside,” Toulouse said. “You always know people have their own story below the surface.”

Toulouse retired from the game in 2014. She wasn’t hurt or unfit. It was just time to walk away.

She stayed away for years until being introduced to the NWSL Broadcast Bootcamp. She got to experience soccer from the production side, and in 2026, Toulouse called her first NWSL match.

“You kind of feel like you're getting a do over and you're almost doing it the way that you should have while also realizing it happened the way it was supposed to,” Toulouse said.

Freedman is a recent graduate of the Ohio State University and active member of Athlete Ally, and while the sport she dedicated her life to is fencing, as a recent medical retiree, the understanding with Farrelly and Toulouse was immediate.

“It's a very new thing that I'm trying to do, being vulnerable and using that vulnerability to make connections with other people,” she said. “This is the best way to do it.”

She wasn’t alone in feeling that way.

“I'm not the type of person to sit down and be like, ‘Hey, this is what I was feeling during this crazy time in my life,’” Toulouse said. “It's just really cool to do it here at a Pride event with people that get you, whether it's through soccer or Pride.”

The Moth is a global storytelling nonprofit. Their shows around the world feature true stories — told live and without notes. Proud and Loud is not the only NWSL connection to The Moth. Catch Gotham captain Tierna Davidson hosting an episode of The Moth Podcast all about soccer here.
