Kansas City, proud home of the Kansas City Current, is hosting the 2024 NWSL Championship presented by Google Pixel and as fans prepare to travel from all across the world to watch the biggest NWSL match of the year, we have a fan guide for all the important things you need easily accessible: where to eat, fun fan events around the city, and important information for game day.

For a list of fan events organized by Kansas City Blue Crew and Undertow Supporters Groups, click here.

The NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, is free and open to the public, and fans will have the chance to meet participating players following the contest. Building on the success of last year’s event, the NWSL has increased seating capacity for this year’s spectacle, ensuring more fans can cheer on their favorite players.

Where: University of Kansas Health System Training Center

When: 5pm CT

Free tickets: SOLD OUT

\New this season, the event will be nationally broadcast on the CBS Television Network and streamed on Paramount+ on Sunday, November 24, at either 3 or 5 p.m. ET (check local listings). \

Fans are invited to gather for a pre-game fan fest featuring live music, games, food and beverages, NWSL merch, player appearances and autographs and photos with the NWSL Championship trophy.

When: 4-7:00 pm CT

Where: at CPKC Stadium in the Gold Lot,1460 East Front Street, Kansas City, MO

Tickets: free!

For more info, click here.

Don’t miss the biggest game of the season, the highly anticipated NWSL Championship match!

When: Kickoff at 8 p.m. ET

Where: CPKC Stadium

Tickets: https://bit.ly/3XmePzM

How to Watch: CBS and streaming on Paramount+

For a list of food and drink recommendations from Kansas City Blue Crew and Undertow Supporters Groups, click here.

Joes KC BBQ

Jack Stack

Q39

Gates

Arthur Bryant’s

Green Lady Lounge

Garozzos

Pierpoint

Billies Grocery

Extra Virgin

Seven Swans Creperie

The Littlest Bake Shop

Tree Hugger Kitchen (Riverside)

Mattie’s Foods

Ruby Jeans Juicery

Iron District! (Not technically food trucks but shipping containers with restaurants)

Cafe Cà Phê

Messenger

HITIDE Coffee

Union Station – Explore Science City, a planetarium, and more.

WWI Museum and Memorial – Iconic KC landmark with sweeping city views.

Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art – Famous for its giant shuttlecocks sculpture.

Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art – Free admission, fantastic modern art.

Negro Leagues Baseball Museum – Learn about the history and impact of African American baseball leagues.

Black Archives of Mid-America – One of the largest compilations of Midwestern African-American collections including artifacts, oral histories and business records covering local leaders, organizations and neighborhoods.

Our Spot KC – Our Spot KC is an inclusive LGBTQ+ center in Kansas City, dedicated to providing a safe and welcoming space for community connection, support, and empowerment through events, resources, and advocacy.

Take some time to explore KC’s unique neighborhoods:

Crossroads – Art galleries, boutiques, and the First Fridays events.

River Market – Local vendors and scenic views along the Missouri River.

The Plaza – Beautiful Spanish-inspired architecture and great shopping.

West Bottoms – Antique stores and seasonal events in a historic district.

Crown Center – Hallmark holiday magic!

RideKC Buses – Free fare, accessible, and connects to many neighborhoods.

KC Streetcar – Free 2.2-mile downtown route from River Market to Union Station.

Riverfront Heritage Trail – A scenic path leading right to CPKC Stadium!

Children under 2 do not need a ticket if seated on a lap.

Strollers can be checked at Guest Services.

CPKC Stadium offers extensive accommodations, including wheelchair assistance, ADA seating, and sensory-friendly kits and rooms for fans with audio or visual sensitivities.

Sensory rooms at CPKC Stadium are located on the NW corner behind sections 110/111 and on the SW corner behind sections 131/132.

All bags must be clear, and no larger than 12"x12"x6".

Diaper and medical bags are subject to inspection.

For a detailed A-Z stadium guide, click here.
