Matchweek 13 starts with a pair of Wednesday fixtures, and both have interesting storylines. Gotham FC hosts the Washington Spirit in a clash that could impact the top of the standings, while Orlando Pride welcomes Boston Legacy FC in a meeting between Brazilian attackers Marta and Amanda Gutierres.

Orlando Pride vs. Boston Legacy FC - 7 PM ET (NWSL+)

Gotham FC vs. Washington Spirit - 8 PM ET (ESPN)

Gotham versus Washington Spirit is a top-five matchup in Matchweek 13, any results from this game will greatly impact the standings. As it stands, Gotham and the Spirit both are at 13 games played this season so far. A Washington Spirit win will put them at the top of the standings with two games in hand.

WASHINGTON SPIRIT’S STADIUM TOUR CONTINUES

The Washington Spirit have become regular participants in some of the league's biggest showcase events. They played in the NWSL's first matches at both Wrigley Field (Chicago) in 2024 and Oracle Park (San Francisco) in 2025, each setting attendance records at the time. Earlier this season, they were also part of Denver Summit's historic home opener at Empower Field at Mile High, where the league set its current attendance record of 63,004.

Wednesday adds another landmark to the list as the Spirit take part in the first-ever NWSL match in New York City. While the overall league attendance record won't fall, Gotham is expected to set a new club attendance record for a home match.

ICE COLD BRAZILIANS

Amanda Gutierres continues to be automatic from the spot. The Boston forward converted the match-winning penalty last weekend, improving to a league-leading three penalty goals this season. Boston's possession-oriented attack often forces defenders into difficult decisions inside the box. If the Legacy earn another penalty, expect the Brazilian to confidently step up once again.

But she isn’t the only Brazilian on the field who is cool from the spot.

On the other side is Marta, the league's all-time queen of penalties. The Orlando legend owns the NWSL record with 15 career regular-season penalty goals, converting 15 of her 16 attempts. If Wednesday's match comes down to a penalty, both sides have one of the league's most trusted finishers ready to step up.

KERR WATCH

One of the biggest stories of the summer arrives Wednesday night.

After Gotham announced the return of Australian star Sam Kerr earlier this month, this could mark her first opportunity to suit up for the club in their new era.
