The NWSL playoff race tightened up this weekend as the Orlando Pride clinched the NWSL Shield, securing the top seed heading into the postseason, while the North Carolina Courage locked in their spot as the fifth team to qualify for the playoffs. With only a handful of regular season games remaining, the final playoff positions are still up for grabs, setting up a dramatic finish as teams battle for a chance to extend their seasons and chase the championship.

Houston Dash 0, Chicago Red Stars 2

Houston Dash fell to the Chicago Red Stars at home, officially eliminating them from playoff contention. Despite creating several opportunities and tying their season high in big chances with four, Houston was unable to find the back of the net. Chicago took the lead early in the match when Ludmila scored her third goal in three games and extended their lead with a penalty kick conversion by Ally Schlegel just before halftime. The Dash came close multiple times but solid defending from Chicago left Houston scoreless.

Seattle Reign FC 0, Angel City FC 1

Angel City FC kept their playoff hopes alive with a 1-0 road victory over Seattle Reign FC, extending their scoring streak to eight consecutive games. Defender M.A. Vignola netted the game’s lone goal in the 34th minute, capping off a well-executed give-and-go play with Alyssa Thompson. Seattle had several chances, including a close-range header from Ana-Maria Crnogorčević in the first half, but Angel City goalkeeper DiDi Haračić and her backline held firm under pressure, securing a critical three points as the regular season winds down.

North Carolina Courage 2, San Diego Wave FC 1

San Diego Wave FC fell 2-1 to the North Carolina Courage, as goals from Aline Gomes and Manaka Matsukubo gave the hosts a two-goal lead by halftime. Defender Hanna Lundkvist pulled one back for the Wave in the 84th minute, converting a first-time shot from a corner kick, but San Diego’s push for an equalizer fell short despite a late attempt from Mya Jones that was saved on the goal line by Kaleigh Kurtz. The victory secured the Courage a playoff spot and extended their unbeaten home streak to 20 games.

NJ/NY Gotham FC 5, Bay FC 1

Bay FC suffered a 5-1 defeat to Gotham FC on the road after the reigning NWSL Champions scored 3 goals in four minutes. Jenna Nighswonger opened the scoresheet early in the match after she converted a penalty and Asisat Oshoala tied the score in the 18th minute. It would be Bay FC’s lone goal and her 7th of the season. In the second half, Rose Lavelle scored followed by a brace from Esther to put the game out of reach and Cece Kizer added the final goal in the 84th minute.

Racing Louisville 0, Kansas City Current 2

Kansas City Current secured a 2-0 victory over Racing Louisville FC at Lynn Family Stadium, ending Louisville’s two-match home winning streak and six-game unbeaten run against Kansas City. Temwa Chawinga opened the scoring in just the second minute and scored her 18th goal of the season, tying the league record for most goals in a season. Despite a stronger second-half showing from the hosts, Racing was unable to capitalize on their chances and in the 8th minute, Kansas City sealed the win with a Vanessa DiBernardo free kick.

Portland Thorns FC 1, Utah Royals FC 2

The Portland Thorns fell 2-1 to the Utah Royals at home for the first time in franchise history. After a scoreless first 45 minutes, Utah broke the deadlock when forward Hannah Betfort scored against her former club followed by Mina Tanaka’s header just three minutes later. Moultrie responded in the 54th minute, converting a penalty but Portland was unable to find the equalizer despite a late push.

Orlando Pride 2, Washington Spirit 0

The undefeated Orlando Pride stayed unbeaten after a rainy victory in Orlando, a penalty, and an own goal secured the Pride their first-ever NWSL Shield. Missing several key players, the Spirit still put plenty of pressure on the hosts but were unable to put any of their shots on target. Orlando took the lead in the 57th minute when Marta converted a penalty earned by Barbra Banda and extended their advantage 15 minutes later with a deflected goal from Adriana. A win or a draw would have secured the Spirit a home quarterfinal match but now they’ll be fighting for it at home next Sunday.
