NEW YORK (February 13, 2024) - The National Women's Soccer League today announced a multi-year partnership with Google, including Google Pixel as the league’s official mobile phone partner, marking an exciting chapter in the evolution of league and women's soccer. As part of this collaboration, Google Pixel will become the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Playoffs and Championship, while also introducing the Pitchside with Pixel program to bring fans closer to the game.

Pitchside with Pixel will put Google’s AI-powered camera technology into the hands of NWSL superfans and professional content creators alike, transforming them into social-first sideline content correspondents. The program, a fresh take on the NWSL’s successful Live Content Correspondent social media pilot in 2023, offers an exclusive, behind-the-scenes experience for fans during some of the biggest matches of the NWSL season. Featured content, including behind-the-scenes footage from tunnels, sidelines and press conferences, will be shared in real-time on NWSL and Google linear, digital, and social channels. “We are thrilled to welcome Google, a global leader in groundbreaking innovation and connectivity, to the NWSL family as our postseason and LCC content sponsor,” said NWSL Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer Julie Haddon. “As we continue to push the boundaries of what is possible in sports, we are constantly exploring new and dynamic ways to connect fans with the NWSL and our remarkable athletes, especially around the league’s most iconic moments that may not be captured on broadcast or streaming platforms. With the support of Google and its cutting-edge technologies, we will continue to capture and share the most exciting and compelling moments of our sport, from kickoff to the NWSL Championship, with fans around the world.” “Google remains committed to increasing visibility, coverage and engagement in women’s sports, and our partnership with the NWSL is a significant milestone in our ongoing journey,” said Kate Johnson, Director of Global Sports, Media and Entertainment Marketing Partnerships, Google. “As the official mobile phone of the league, Google Pixel puts the best of Google – including its leading camera and AI-first technology – directly into the hands of NWSL fans. We’re excited that Pitchside with Pixel will give fans even more NWSL content to enjoy and a new way to connect with the league and each other.” Finally, as part of this exciting partnership, Google will sponsor and administer a contest for U.S.-based fans. Fourteen winners will be selected, each earning the chance to be part of the Pitchside with Pixel program at a regular season match, providing an opportunity for fans to represent and feature their favorite NWSL club on the league's website social channels. Allied Sports assisted the NWSL’s Commercial Partnerships Strategy team on this deal.

About National Women's Soccer League

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Google Pixel

Pixel is the only smartphone engineered by Google, bringing you the best of Google smarts on AndroidOS. Well known for their industry-leading cameras, Pixel phones are powerful and fast, and come in a variety of models to choose from. Our latest Pixel phones run on our custom Tensor G3 chip, which enables enhanced security capabilities and outstanding image transformation.
