Just two weeks into the new year, the league will usher in a host of fresh talent at the 2023 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally.

Just two weeks into the new year, the league will usher in a host of fresh talent at the 2023 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally.<br>A deeper dive into the history of the draft below: <br>Dominance at the top <br>No. 1 picks have historically been among the league’s most notable and statistically successful players. <br>San Diego Wave FC Defender

Naomi Girma’s

success last season, which saw her lead her club to a playoff semifinal en route to being named the NWSL Defender of the Year, is just one account. One year prior,

Emily Fox

added to the University of North Carolina’s impressive list of No. 1 selections when expansion side Racing Louisville FC selected her with the first overall pick. <br>In 2020, Portland had the opportunity to go back-to-back with picks No. 1 and No. 2, and their selection of

Sophia Smith

at No. 1 has proven fruitful to say the least. Last season, Smith became the youngest player to win the league’s MVP honor before doubling down with the Championship MVP trophy after leading the Thorns to the club’s third title. <br>No. 1 overall selections from the last nine NWSL Drafts have also featured heavily on the international stage for the U.S. Women’s National Team, appearing in Olympics, World Cups and CONCACAF Gold Cups. Notably, four of those nine players helped the U.S. win its fourth World Cup title at the 2019 fixture in France. <br>Of note, only three clubs have held the No. 1 pick multiple times, including

Portland

in 2020 and 2016,

Washington

in 2018 and 2014 and

Chicago

in 2019 and 2013. NJ/NY Gotham FC currently holds the No. 1 overall pick at the 2023 event. <br>Depth Chart <br>First round selections are not the only players to have success in the league. Taken with the 34th pick in the 2015 event, Kansas City midfielder (drafted by NJ/NY Gotham FC)

Lo'eau LaBonta

has amassed over 100 appearances in the NWSL and enjoyed her best season to date in 2022, tallying eight goals and four assists en route to her first-ever selection to the NWSL's Best XI First Team. <br>The same year, defender

Caprice Dydasco

was selected in the third round by the Washington Spirit, and in 2021, was named the league's top defender following five appearances on the NWSL Team of the Month. Dydasco played in every match, tallied five assists and scored her first goal during the 2021 campaign. <br>Success for Schools <br>The

ACC

has historically dominated the NWSL Draft, boasting the most picks based on school attended at the time of the draft. Two schools stand alone at the top of the list with

North Carolina

and

UCLA

both boasting 20 selections. Just behind, though, are

Stanford

and

Virginia

who both have 19 picks to their name. The separation begins with

Duke

(17) and

Florida State

(12) staking the ACC’s claim in the rest of the top 10 schools. <br>Others included in the top 10 are

Penn State

(15 – Big Ten),

Florida

(11 – SEC) and

Santa Clara

(10 – WCC). Overall, the ACC owns the most picks by conference at 100, followed by the Pac-12 (83), a big game to third place Big Ten (53), and rounding out the top five are the SEC (42) and WCC (29). <br>Notables * In 2021, six of the top 10 selections were Black players, a record in the NWSL, highlighted by No. 2 overall pick Trinity Rodman and No. 3 pick Brianna Pinto. Rodman additionally is the youngest draftee in league history (18 yrs, 8 mos). The first round of the 2021 NWSL Draft marked the most diverse first round of a league draft since 2017.

Last year’s draft saw first-time selections for four universities, including Cal State - Long Beach, the University of Georgia, Gonzaga University and Purdue University.

With Girma’s selection last year, Stanford University now boasts four No. 1 selections in NWSL Draft history. The defender joins Stanford grads Tierna Davidson (2019), Sophia Smith (2020) and Andi Sullivan (2018) as the first overall pick.

Two countries saw first-time selections in an NWSL Draft when St. John’s University forward Zsannett Kajan became the first Hungarian player to be taken in the draft, going to OL Reign with the eighth overall pick. The first German to be taken, Grand Canyon University forward/midfielder Marleen Schimmer was selected by San Diego Wave FC with the ninth pick. <br>When is the Draft? <br>The 2023 NWSL Draft presented by Ally is set for Thursday, January 12 at 6 p.m. ET, and will be held during the United Soccer Coaches Convention at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Philadelphia. <br>How can I watch the Draft? <br>Coverage of the NWSL Draft presented by Ally will begin on CBS Sports Network, Paramount+ and CBS Sports HQ, the free 24/7 streaming sports news network, 6 to 7 p.m. ET. The draft livestream will continue on Paramount+ and CBS Sports HQ from 7 to 11 p.m. ET. <br>Can I attend the Draft? <br>The Draft is free and open to the public. There will be general admission seating on a first-come, first-served basis for the general public.
