KANSAS CITY (September 20, 2025) – With today’s 2-0 win against Seattle Reign FC, the Kansas City Current clinched the 2025 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, awarded to the club with the best record at the conclusion of the regular season. With a current regular season record of 17-2-2, Kansas City enters the 2025 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, as the No. 1 overall seed.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Shield, CarMax has continued its commitment to awarding Shield bonuses for a fourth year, contributing additional funds to each Kansas City Current player’s earnings this year. Additionally, the league and global luxury jeweler Tiffany & Co. will continue to present the reimagined NWSL Shield trophy, first unveiled in 2024 as part of the league’s evolving end-of-year awards. The trophy was presented to the Current following today’s title-clinching match.

“CarMax is proud to champion the growth of the NWSL and its players through our long-standing partnership with the league and the annual presentation of the NWSL Shield,” said Sarah Lane, Chief Marketing Officer at CarMax. “This award celebrates the team’s exceptional performance and unwavering effort throughout the regular season - a true testament to the team’s resilience and excellence. We’re honored to support the players and the game through meaningful recognition. Congratulations to the KC Current on a remarkable season and well-earned achievement.”

With the No. 1 seed, Kansas City has earned home field advantage for the opening round of the 2025 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, and will meet the No. 8 seed in the quarterfinals.

The postseason kicks off the weekend of November 7-9. This year’s playoff format features an eight-team quarterfinal ahead of the semifinal round taking place November 14-16.

Additional details around the NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, will be shared in the coming weeks.

The 2025 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, kicks off at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 22, at PayPal Park in San Jose, California. Tickets for the match are available at nwslsoccer.com/championship.

This year’s slate of postseason matches will air across CBS, ESPN/ABC and Prime Video, with the NWSL Championship airing live on the CBS Television Network and streaming on Paramount+.

CarMax joined the NWSL in July 2022 as the league’s first Official Auto Retailer and presenting sponsor of the NWSL Shield. In addition to their commitment to driving growth for the NWSL and its players by doubling the Shield bonus pool, CarMax has also invested in creating events and activations to bolster excitement and engagement for fans at home and onsite at league events, including the Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, which was the most-watched event in NWSL history with 1.5M viewers in 2024.
