Tatumn Milazzo spent her entire first season with the Utah Royals on the sidelines, nursing her second ACL injury. It was one weird move in training, and there she was again at the bottom of the mountain that is rehabilitation.

In a new home with a new club and new teammates, one could forgive Milazzo for being resentful for how her time in Utah started, but that’s just not how she operates.

“It should have been, on paper, the worst year ever. Moving somewhere new. You don't get to play. Now you're going through this rehab,” Milazzo said thinking back on her 2025. “In my head, that's just not what it was. Like, I loved it.”

For Milazzo, the why is simple. It’s the people. They are the reason that the climb up that mountain, healing her body, and being patient to get back on the pitch, was more than tolerable.

They might also be why when Milazzo finally made it on the pitch in Utah’s season opener against the reigning Shield winners, the Kansas City Current, she scored her first NWSL goal since 2023.

“I was just in shock,” Milazzo said of the goal. “This is crazy. This is my life. I was just like, ‘How could this be happening?’”

When the Utah defender injured her ACL and tore her meniscus, Milazzo was brought back to the last time she was injured. Suffering from a torn ACL her senior year of college at the University of South Carolina meant virtually no shot at the NWSL Draft.

“The first one, I was not chill. I was crying every day,” she said, now years later, with a laugh. “I was like, ‘My life's over.’”

Milazzo said she owed it to herself to make a real shot at making it in the NWSL, so she powered through her rehab and got back to form. Having grown up outside of Chicago, Milazzo was familiar with the coaching staff and players of the then Red Stars.

So she tried her luck as a trialist.

“It was just so stressful doing that for months,” Milazzo said. “I'm on the side updating my LinkedIn. I don't know if I'm going to need to go find a job.”

She didn’t need that LinkedIn after all. Instead, Milazzo made the team in 2021, and she was in the starting lineup in the NWSL Championship later that year.

She spent four years playing for her hometown team before she realized it was time to seek a new challenge. The Royals – and her friend, Kate Del Fava – came calling.

“I just really liked their energy. I really liked the ideas that they wanted to put out onto the field,” Milazzo said. “I was like, ‘You know what? I'm pretty bought in. If you guys are down, I'm down.”

It had all the makings of an ideal fresh start, and then she got hurt. The difference this time around, though, was stability. Milazzo was no longer worried she would miss her window to make it pro. She had already made it. This was just a setback, and the only way back to the pitch was through.

“There's no other option. You have to just go do the rehab and make it better than the first time,” she said. “You can't show up and be miserable because that's just not fun and it's going to make it so much harder. I was just like, ‘This is where you're at, and this is what you have to do. You have to go do it.’”

She got to know the support staff, learned to trust them and pal around before locking in for each session. Milazzo made the most of it, bringing her social and carefree energy to the training room day in and day out, which only helped her get to know her new teammates.

“It gave me a different perspective. I got to know a lot of the girls on a personal level because I wasn't competing at training or traveling with them,” Milazzo said. “All I got to do was talk to them about almost anything. Anything but soccer.”

By the time Milazzo got back on the field for the first time since October 12, 2024, she was ecstatic about every mundane part of the day-to-day.

“I've always just been a player that I just love to show up and like, be with my friends,” Milazzo said. “I get to go play soccer with my friends every day. How freaking cool is that?”

Her enthusiasm transforms when she’s on the field. Milazzo is a competitor. After more than a year on the sidelines as a cheerleader, her teammates were surprised to see her outgoing personality turn into chirping on the field.

“After a couple of trainings, some of the girls were like, ‘Whoa, I haven't heard you yell in a while,’” Milazzo said, laughing. “I'm a new person out here.”

Now that Milazzo is back on the pitch, she already has two goals this season, and it’s those relationships that have made all the difference. Working hard for the people in the organization means even more after her first year on the sidelines.

This is as much due to Milazzo’s approach as it is to what the Royals have been building towards. The club finished the 2025 season in 12th place, 40 points behind the first place Kansas City Current and 11 points behind No. 8 Gotham FC.

But the table doesn’t tell the whole story. The Royals won just one game in the first half of the season and wouldn’t win their second until August. After the summer break, Utah lost only three games for the rest of the season.

The rest of the league saw glimmers of what the Royals were building, and early in 2026, that momentum has continued. After a 3-0 win over the Seattle Reign in Matchweek 5, the Royals sat No. 3 on the table, the highest positioning for Utah since 2019.

“We don't want to be the same Utah team that has been the last two years. We want to make our mark this year. We want to compete with everyone,” Milazzo said. “Everyone's on the same page, showing up, and working hard … I love the team so much. That definitely makes it easier to show up and work hard for the people around you.”

The Utah Royals take on Angel City this Saturday at 8:45 p.m. ET on ION.
