NEW YORK (August 9, 2024) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Seven teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including the Angel City FC, the Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, the North Carolina Courage, the Orlando Pride, the Portland Thorns FC and the Utah Royals FC.

GK – Cassie Miller (GFC): Miller recorded six saves in two games played with a perfect 100% save percentage allowing 0 goals registering two clean sheets, to help Gotham FC earn a spot in the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup semifinals. The Arizona native has a passing accuracy of 96.67% throughout180 minutes played.

D – Sarah Gorden (LA): Gorden earned a spot on the Best XI after recording four tackles won throughout the month and registering a passing accuracy of 79.34% in 360 minutes played. Gorden helped lead Angel City FC to the top of Group D and a spot in the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Semifinals in Kansas City, Missouri.

D – Kerry Abello (ORL): The Illinois native tallied two tackles and one successful block in July. Abello played 210 minutes and recorded a passing accuracy of 78.82%.

D – Meghan Klingenberg (POR): Klingenberg played a total of 188 minutes during July, recording two assists. The veteran defender tallied her two assists in the Thorn’s 5-0 victory against Tijuana on July 21.

D – Madison Curry (LA): The rookie defender recorded five tackles won along with eight interceptions during July to earn a spot in the Best XI this month. The California native played a total of 256 minutes this month helping Angel City to an undefeated run in the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup group stage.

M – Debinha (KC): The Brazilian international recorded a brace in the Current’s 3-0 victory over Pachuca on July 27. Debinha added five successful dribbles past opponents and three interceptions along with eight shots, five on target in 270 minutes played.

M – Lo’eau LaBonta (KC): LaBonta recorded two goals in three games played. The California native played 270 minutes throughout the month including nine tackles won and eight interceptions.

M – Meredith Speck (NC): Speck earned a spot on the Best XI after recording three assists in four games played for the North Carolina Courage. The midfielder’s performance helped the Courage earn a spot in the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup semifinals in Kansas City, Missouri.

F – Ally Sentnor (UTA): The No. 1 overall draft pick in the 2024 NWSL draft, presented by Ally, scored three goals and one assist during July including one goal and one assist in the Royals 5-0 victory over Tijuana. The Massachusetts native was also honored with July Player of the Month, presented by EA SPORTS, along with July Rookie of the Month, presented by Ally, the second ever NWSL player to win all three awards in the same month.

F – Kristen Hamilton (KC): Hamilton recorded two goals and two assists in two games played this month. The Colorado native added three tackles won and three shots on target in 87 minutes played recording a goal and an assist in the same game in both the Current’s victories on July 20 and July 27.

F – Ashley Sanchez (NC): Ashley Sanchez recorded two goals and nine shots, six on target throughout July. In 265 minutes of action, Sanchez tallied four tackles won and six successful dribbles past opponents along with a passing percentage of 88.11.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of July are based off performances in both regular season and NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup matches.
