Week 21 delivered plenty of excitement as the race for the coveted NWSL Shield continued. Meanwhile, the scramble for the final playoff spots in the middle of the standings grew even more intense as teams jockeyed for much needed points in the hopes of extending their season. Here’s everything you need to know from an action-packed weekend!

Washington Spirit 2, Angel City FC 1

The Washington Spirit secured a 2-1 victory over Angel City FC, completing a season series sweep and grabbing some desperately needed points if they want to continue to fight for the NWSL Shield. Ashley Hatch opened the scoring in the 39th minute with her fifth goal of the season, moving into a tie for sixth-most goals in NWSL history. Angel City responded early in the second half with a Messiah Bright equalizer, but the Spirit regained the lead through Makenna Morris, who netted a perfectly placed goal after receiving the ball from Rosemonde Kouassi. Despite several late chances for Angel City, Washington held firm and left Los Angeles victorious.

NJ/NY Gotham FC 1, Kansas City Current 1

The Kansas City Current and NJ/NY Gotham FC played to a 1-1 draw at CPKC Stadium, marking their second 1-1 tie of the 2024 season. Gotham took the lead in the 23rd minute after a deflected cross from Yazmeen Ryan found the back of the net. Kansas City equalized early in the second half when Temwa Chawinga scored her 17th goal of the season, putting her one goal away from tying the NWSL regular season scoring record. Despite Kansas City’s second-half pressure and several chances from both sides, neither team could find a winner.

Utah Royals FC 1, Racing Louisville FC 0

Ana Tejada’s second-half goal secured a 1-0 victory for Utah Royals FC over Racing Louisville in Utah, halting Louisville’s two-game winning streak. Despite Racing’s offensive pressure and several near-misses, including a shot off the crossbar from Taylor Flint, they couldn’t break through. By the end of the weekend, the loss would leave Louisville just outside a playoff spot.

Orlando Pride 3, Houston Dash 1

The Orlando Pride extended their unbeaten streak to 23 games with a 3-1 win over the Houston Dash in front of 17,087 fans, their largest at Inter&Co Stadium and second largest in club history. Carson Pickett opened the scoring with her first goal for the Pride in the 29th minute, followed by a long-range strike from Angelina early in the second half. The Dash quickly responded with a goal from Yuki Nagasato, but Marta sealed the victory in stoppage time with her seventh goal of the season. The win marks Orlando’s eighth home victory this year, setting a new single-season club record, while also keeping them in position to clinch the NWSL Shield next week against the Washington Spirit.

San Diego Wave FC 2, Portland Thorns 0

San Diego Wave FC earned a 2-0 victory over Portland Thorns in Southern California, with a goal from Mya Jones and a goal initiated by 16-year-old Melanie Barcenas securing the win. Jones opened the scoring in the 70th minute, heading in a free kick assist from María Sánchez. Barcenas doubled the lead five minutes later with her first professional goal, a deflected strike that sealed the result. Goalkeeper Kailen Sheridan recorded her sixth shutout of the season and after the match, celebrated Canadian teammate and Thorns legend Christine Sinclair with a jersey swap ahead of Sinclair’s retirement.

North Carolina Courage 3, Chicago Red Stars 1

The North Carolina Courage defeated the Chicago Red Stars 3-1 on the road, ensuring they remain firmly in playoff contention with a comfortable gap between them and the 6th place team, Chicago themselves. An own goal by Chicago opened the scoring in the 15th minute and Denise O’Sullivan doubled the lead before halftime with a top-corner strike following a well-executed team play. Kerolin, in her second match back from injury, added a third goal in the 66th minute, her first since her return. Chicago’s Ludmila scored two minutes later, but it was only a consolation as the Courage secured their third road win of the regular season.

Bay FC 1, Seattle Reign 0

Bay FC secured a crucial 1-0 road victory over Seattle Reign FC with Asisat Oshoala’s first-half penalty kick proving to be the only goal of the match. The win moved Bay FC into the eighth and final playoff spot with four matches left in the regular season. Oshoala, who leads the team with six goals, has been especially productive on the road, scoring five of her goals away from home. Bay FC’s strong defensive performance, anchored by Katelyn Rowland’s 24th career clean sheet and Abby Dahlkemper, helped them to their fifth road win of the season, tying them for the fourth-most in the league this year with Orlando Pride.
