Savy King didn't ask to become an advocate for CPR training and cardiac health, but she taking on the responsibility anway.

After collapsing on the field due to a cardiac incident and a subsequent open heart surgery, King has become an advocate for the CPR training that saved her life, and on Tuesday, King appeared on "The Jennifer Hudson Show" to talk about the incident, her recovery, and returning to the game she loves.

"I've always loved soccer, now it means something so much deeper than just the sport. I'm excited to play in front of all the people that saw what happened to me, as well, and to see that you can come back from something," King said. "You can be stronger. Anything is possible if you work really hard at it."

King started a nonprofit, King of Hearts, to make CPR training accessible and to educate people about cardiac health. Having had such a public health care, King said people stop her constantly to share their own stories, creating a community of sorts.

"After this happened, so many people come up to me and tell me their stories. It's crazy to see how many people are actually affected by it, either directly or indirectly," King said. "Going to the games, there will be some people in the crowd and they'll be showing me their scars too. it's really awesome that people feel comfortable enough to tell me those things."

Hudson and her audience listened to King in attentive silence, but the host put it succinctly after hearing King's story.

"You're a miracle, young lady," Hudson said.

King said it was special to be able to get back to playing soccer, especially in front of the medical staff that saved her life.

"They gave me a second chance to do what i love," she said.

Now 10 months from the incident, King is back on the pitch, and few people are happier for her than the teammates that surprised her during the interview. Angel City FC teammates Riley Tiernan, Gisele Thompson, Casey Phair, and Nealy Martin joined King on the couch, sharing what it was like to watch their friend work hard, rehabilitate, and get back on the field.

"Savy is so talented, and she was strong presence especially as a defender," Tiernan said. "That's an important role to have, and so when she was gone, not only her personality on and off the field we missed that but just her presence."

Thompson said seeing the moment play out on the field was terrifying, but there was solace in the way both teams came together.

"We were all scaraed. i think something positive that came out of it was the prayer circle and seeing how everyone can come together," Thompson sadi. "It's bigger than soccer."

You can watch the entire interview below.
