NEW YORK (March 28, 2024) - Thirty-one NWSL players from 11 clubs will represent their respective countries on the global stage at the 2024 SheBelieves Cup next week in Atlanta, Georgia, and Columbus, Ohio. Brazil, Canada, Japan and the United States are slated to participate in the event, with all four rosters featuring NWSL stars.

The United States leads the way with 17 NWSL players, with Chicago Red Stars forward Mallory Swanson joining 16 returning players from the roster that won the 2024 Concacaf W Gold Cup earlier this month, including teenagers Olivia Moultrie and Jaedyn Shaw, who combined for six goals in the tournament. Shaw earned the Best Player Award and earned a W Gold Cup Best XI selection alongside Chicago’s Alyssa Naeher, who also earned Best Goalkeeper honors. Portland Thorns FC has the most call ups with seven, including 2022 NWSL MVP Sophia Smith, who recently signed a contract extension through 2025 with an option through 2026. Smith will compete against her NWSL teammate and Canadian team captain Jessie Fleming, who registered two assists in the W Gold Cup and also earned tournament Best XI honors. Thorns forward Janine Beckie, who notched a brace in Portland’s season opener after missing a year due to injury, will join Fleming on the roster. 2022 NWSL Champion Hina Sugita will suit up for Japan. Since joining the Thorns in 2022, Sugita has posted 13 goals and seven assists. The veteran midfielder has played in three previous SheBelieves Cups, including 2023 when she helped lead Japan to a second-place finish. Brazil’s roster will feature three players from the Orlando Pride, including six-time FIFA Women’s Player of the Year winner and the all-time leading scorer in World Cup history, Marta. The legendary soccer icon will suit up with Pride teammates Angelina and Luana, as well as Kansas City Current defender Lauren. The first round kicks off on Saturday, April 6 at Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta, as the United States faces Japan at 12:30 p.m. ET, followed by Brazil and Canada at 3:30 p.m. ET. The final and third place matches will be played at Lower.com Field in Columbus on Tuesday, April 9, kicking off at 4 and 7 p.m. ET. A full list of NWSL players competing at the 2024 SheBelieves Cup can be found below.
