Washington Spirit forward Sofia Cantore was at the heart of Italy’s victory, notching assists on both goals. Early in the second half, she darted down the right to deliver a pinpoint low cross that Cristiana Girelli finished for the opener. Norway equalized but Cantore was not to be denied, swinging in a brilliant long cross from the left that Girelli met with a decisive header for a brace to seal Italy’s place in the semifinals.

Gotham FC’s Jess Carter got the start for England’s backline, enduring a difficult first half against a dominant Sweden who scored two goals in the first half. Carter was subbed off in the 70th minute for Washington Spirit’s Esme Morgan, and less than 10 minutes later, the Lionesses mounted a comeback of epic proportions with two goals in two minutes, forcing extra time. Morgan didn’t take a penalty kick however, but England’s goalkeeper made key saves and enough penalty kick takers converted to send them to the semifinals to defend their title.

Gotham FC striker Esther González started up front for Spain but found herself tightly marked by Switzerland, limited to a single shot on target and keeping her scoreless for the first time all tournament. On the opposite side, Seattle Reign FC’s Ana-Maria Crnogorcevic started for Switzerland and worked tirelessly to keep Spain locked out of the final third. However, Spain finally broke through in the second half, scoring two goals in five minutes to end the host country’s trophy dreams.

San Diego Wave player Delphine Cascarino was a lively presence for France, nearly scoring before halftime. but seeing her finish was ruled out for offside and she later tested Ann-Katrin Berger with a long-range strike, that the Gotham FC keeper xxx. Despite Kathrin Hendrich’s early red card, Germany equalized and clung on for penalties. In the shootout, Gotham FC goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger was heroic, making two saves to propel Germany into the semis.

England’s Jess Carter, Esme Morgan, and Anna Moorhouse go head‑to‑head with Esme’s Washington Spirit teammate, Italy’s Sofia Cantore, on Tuesday, July 22 at 3 PM ET.

The very next day, Germany’s Ann‑Katrin Berger meets her Gotham teammate, Spain’s Esther González, in another showdown at 3 PM ET.
