After the international break, NWSL teams are back and ready to keep the party going! With much-needed points on the line, clubs are looking to regain their rhythm or sustain their winning momentum. Here’s what fans have to look forward to!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

For details on specific matches and where to watch in these territories, click here.

Matchup: Racing Louisville FC vs. Houston Dash - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

The weekend’s match action kicks off in Louisville as Racing hosts the Houston Dash for a Pride Night clash. A lot is on the line for both squads – Racing is fighting to maintain their place in the standings and Houston is fighting for points to hopefully earn a playoff berth. It’s Racing’s young goal scoring phenom Emma Sears versus Jane Campbell, the 2023 NWSL Goalkeeper of the Year. Who you got?

Matchup: San Diego Wave vs. Orlando Pride - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime Video

This week’s Prime Video match is taking place in San Diego, where the 2023 NWSL Shield Winners will face off against current league leaders, the Orlando Pride. The Pride are on a tear this season, still undefeated and on an eight-match victory streak. And in only seven matches, Pride forward Barbra Banda has fought her way to the top of the Golden Boot race, scoring braces in three of her six career NWSL starts including the last two in a row. She’ll have her work cut out for her Friday evening when she faces off against one of the most clinical shot stoppers in the league, Kailen Sheridan. Start your weekend off right and tune in to all the Prime action!

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Angel City FC - 12:30 PM ET

Where to watch: CBS/Paramount+

Who isn’t a fan of a little East Coast versus West Coast rivalry?! Angel City FC is headed east for a Pride Night matchup against the 2023 NWSL Champs, Gotham FC. Last time Gotham FC faced off against a team from California – in San Jose before the international break – they came away with a decisive victory thanks in no small part to two back-to-back goals from Ella Stevens. But those goals came off of goalkeeper errors, and they’ll be hard pressed to find those opportunities against a goalkeeper who knows them as well as Angel City FC goalkeeper DiDi Haracic – who once called Gotham FC home.

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Bay FC - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

Get your popcorn, get your hot dogs! The Chicago Red Stars are stepping up to a slightly different plate this match – the iconic Wrigley Field, home of the Chicago Cubs – where they’ll be hosting Bay FC. Last time the two faced off, Chicago knocked it out of the park in front of Bay FC’s home crowd. Will Bay FC strike out and lose both matches against the Red Stars this season or are they ready to take to the pitchers mound and throw the Red Stars for a curveball? Batter up, folks, it’s going to be a home run of a match!

Matchup: Utah Royals FC vs. Washington Spirit - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

The Washington Spirit are ascending to the high altitudes of Utah as they face off against the Utah Royals for the Royals’ Pride Night. Last time they faced off, the Spirit scored two goals in the first half but let in a goal in the 71st minute. The Spirit were able to maintain the lead and come away with a victory but with 16 of their goals this season coming in the first half – more than any other team – if Utah can keep their defense organized, they may be able to come away with a much needed victory. Tune in, it’s about to be a Croix Bethune, Hal Hershfelt, and Ally Sentnor rookie masterclass!

Matchup: Portland Thorns vs. North Carolina Courage - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

It’s Pride Night in Portland as the Thorns host the North Carolina Courage. Both teams lost their last matches and are eager to turn their fortunes around this Saturday but the difference maker could be in the amount of goals both teams have the potential to score. For the Thorns, they’ve had ten different goal scorers this season so far – including current league leader Sophia Smith – with a team total of twenty-four goals, the third highest in the league. The Courage will have to ensure all their goal scorers are in perfect form Saturday evening if they hope to overcome Portland’s experienced backline to earn some points and maintain their position in the league standings.

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. Seattle Reign FC - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

In the lone Sunday fixture, the Kansas City Current are hosting the Seattle Reign for an evening showdown at CPKC Stadium. The Current, still missing Bia Zaneratto in their forward lineup, came away with a narrow victory in their last match, in Utah, thanks to a lone goal by Elizabeth Ball in the second half. The Reign, meanwhile, suffered defeat at Audi Field, but almost earned themselves a draw after mounting a strong offensive effort late in the match. If they can launch their attack sooner and keep the Current on the backfoot, they may be able to come away with much needed points, especially with the return of Bethany Balcer from suspension. End your weekend in style with the NWSL this Sunday on NWSL+!
