Late-game winners, Golden Boot contenders finding the net, statement victories, and home fortresses holding strong. Week 12 had it all. With just one matchweek left before the July break, teams were hunting for momentum and points to carry into the summer reset. Some rose to the occasion, others stumbled, but with Week 13 approaching, redemption is still on the table for some. Catch up on all the action before we march onwards!

San Diego Wave made it four straight road wins with a 3-2 victory in Houston, powered by a trio of goals. Kenza Dali opened the scoring with a clean half-volley in the 17th minute before Adriana Leon doubled the lead on her 100th NWSL appearance. María Sánchez added a third early in the second half with a header following a pinpoint ball from Delphine Cascarino. Houston rallied late, with Bárbara Olivieri and Yazmeen Ryan both scoring long-range stunners, but it wasn’t enough to deny the Wave some well-deserved points.

Esther González reclaimed the Golden Boot lead with her fourth brace, helping Gotham FC to a 3-0 win in Utah.The Spaniard struck early with a header off Sarah Schupansky’s assist and later converted a penalty to reach nine goals on the season. One more brace this season will make NWSL history. Jaelin Howell added her first NWSL goal just before halftime. Ann-Katrin Berger kept a clean sheet through the game but two Gotham players – Howell and Jess Carter – exited on reds. They’ll miss next weekend due to suspension and will be back at the end of the July break.

Orlando Pride are still perfect against Bay FC, defeating the San Jose-based team 1-0 on Saturday night thanks to a Barbra Banda second-half strike. Banda's eighth goal of the season came in the 58th minute when the Pride took a free kick that was so quick, it caught Bay FC by surprise. With no one on her, Banda made a run into the box and her deflected shot pinged past Emmie Allen in her NWSL regular season debut. Anna Moorhouse stood tall in goal, making multiple key saves to keep the home team disappointed. The win also keeps the Pride ahead of San Diego and just five points behind league leaders, KC Current. Meanwhile, Bay FC are just outside a playoff spot.

Seattle staged a late comeback to steal a point in Chicago, drawing 2-2 after trailing by two goals in the first half. Ludmila scored a brace within two minutes early in the match to give the hosts a commanding lead. But the Reign responded through Lynn Biyendolo in the 87th minute and Jordyn Bugg just three minutes later—becoming the first NWSL road team to avoid defeat after trailing by more than one goal in the 85th minute or later. It was Biyendolo’s second goal for the Reign as she continues to make a run at the all-time regular season record, and Bugg’s second-ever pro goal.

The Kansas City Current claimed a huge 4-2 result over Racing Louisville at home, becoming the first club to reach 10 wins in the 2025 season. Michelle Cooper’s cross forced an early own goal in the second minute, and she doubled the lead with a composed finish just 13 minutes later. Bia Zaneratto added a third before the 20-minute mark, converting a pass from Vanessa DiBernardo, who tied the league record with her 31st career assist. Racing responded in the second half through Janine Sonis and Uchenna Kanu to cut the deficit to one, but Temwa Chawinga sealed the result deep into stoppage time with a brilliant solo effort, continuing her five-game scoring streak in the process. KC is now 5-0-0 at home this season.

North Carolina secured its first-ever win at BMO Stadium with a 2-1 victory over Angel City, bookended by Cortnee Vine’s opening goal and Brianna Pinto’s stoppage-time winner. Vine put the Courage ahead just 42 seconds in after a slick buildup and assist from Manaka Matsukubo, the fastest goal of the season so far. Riley Tiernan equalized for Angel City in the 11th minute, but North Carolina had the final say. With the game tied deep into stoppage time, Pinto pounced on a chaotic corner to seal all three points.

Portland Thorns defended their home fortress once again with a 2-0 win over Washington Spirit in front of a season-high 21,268 fans. Reilyn Turner opened the scoring off a smooth buildup involving Olivia Moultrie and Jessie Fleming, with Fleming assisting via nutmeg. Then rookie Pietra Tordin added a second late with a chip to seal the result. Fleming assisted that as well, delivering the ball to Tordin’s feet with a perfectly placed long ball. The win extended Portland’s unbeaten home run to eight matches and denied Washington a shot at setting a new league record for road wins (6-0-0).
