Gotham FC’s last two seasons ended in heartbreaking losses in extra time, and as the No. 8 seed going into CPKC Stadium, the odds were stacked against them.

What’s the phrase? Right – third time’s the charm.

The Kansas City Current had the greatest regular season in NWSL history – the fastest to win the Shield, the most goals, the most points, the most wins. But none of that matters in the playoffs, and today, Gotham FCdid the unthinkable – they defeated Kansas City for the first time ever. In their own stadium.

Gotham eliminated the Current with a 2-1 win in extra time to advance to the semifinals and complete the biggest upset in NWSL playoff history. It’s just the second time the Current have lost at CPKC Stadium, and the first time since the summer of 2024.

Katie Stengel played the hero, scoring the game-winning goal in the 121st minute. It’s the second time Stengel has come off the bench to score an extra time game-winner in the playoffs, doing so against the Portland Thorns in the 2023 semifinals, sending her team to the NWSL Championship in San Diego where they would ultimately lift the trophy. .

A stunned silence hung over the sold-out crowd at CPKC Stadium as it sunk in that this was the end of the road for the Current’s historic season.

The season of destiny ended in the first round of playoffs.

Both sides were without star players. For Kansas City, Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga and Michelle Cooper were out due to injury, and Gotham’s leading goal scorer Esther González (who could be seen on the broadcast huddled under a huge puffy coat) was available off the bench but didn’t see game action.

Gotham controlled the game for much of the first half, though they failed to break through until the 68th minute.

Jaedyn Shaw made a run from well outside the 18-yard-box and got off a low shot that went past a sprawled Lorena into the left corner, marking Shaw’s first-ever playoff goal.

Shaw wasn’t done contributing, however; she later earned the assist on Stengel’s game-winner.

With minutes to go in second half stoppage time, Ellie Wheeler gave the Current a second chance at life. Kansas City came into extra time with renewed energy, but Gotham kept their heads down. After letting up the stoppage time goal, Ann-Katrin Berger reminded everyone why she is revered around the world, making huge stops to keep the game level.

Stengel’s game-winning goal sends Gotham through to the semifinals as the last seed for the second time in club history. In 2021, they were the first to advance as the No. 6 seed, and now, they’re the first to advance as the No. 8.

Gotham FC will hit the road again, taking on the reigning champion Orlando Pride in the semifinals next weekend, but with a competitive edge: Gotham now leads the league in road playoff wins (3).

Turns out, Gotham’s got that (under) dog in them.

Catch their semifinal showdown in Orlando next Sunday, November 16 at 3 PM ET on ABC.

Check out the 2025 NWSL Playoffs Hub.
