With the international break behind us and the 2025 season nearing its midpoint, Week 11 offers teams a crucial chance to reset, refocus, and build momentum for the stretch ahead. From rising stars to playoff-positioning battles, here’s what to watch for this weekend.

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+, Golazo

Week 11 match action kicks off Friday night in Louisville with Racing Louisville hosting the Utah Royals, with both teams entering the weekend in very different positions. The Royals are winless in their last five matches and for Racing, has they’ve only experienced one loss since April 19th. Savannah DeMelo and Emma Sears continue to be key pieces of Racing’s attack, with Sears leading the club in goals this season and DeMelo in assists. Emma Sears is just one goal away from tying the club’s single-season record and could hit that mark in front of the home crowd this weekend. For Utah, Brecken Mozingo is heating up with goals in back-to-back games, while Ally Sentnor is tied for the team lead in assists and corners taken. Sentnor is returning to the Royals after a huge showing for the USWNT, where she scored a brace in their most recent match versus Jamaica. She could be the difference-maker on Friday night.

How to watch: Prime Video

San Diego’s attack is firing on all cylinders, with 17-year-old Kimmi Ascanio hitting her sophomore stride by scoring three goals in her last four games. Perle Morroni and Adriana Leon also stepped up last week with standout finishes and as usual, Delphine Cascarino along with Morroni and fellow Frenchwoman Kenza Dali are an exciting trio to behold. Seattle will look to involve Jess Fishlock more as she increases her minutes after missing a few games due to injury. Forward Lynn Biyendolo, like Sentnor, has also recently had a big game with the USWNT, scoring a brace versus Jamaica, and might be the vibe ruiner for San Diego’s recent undefeated streak.

How to watch: CBS, Paramount+

Esther González needs just one more brace to tie the league’s single-season record but there’s no one more difficult to score that on than the Current this season, with one of the stingiest defenses of 2025. To make matters worse (for Gotham), the Current also has the most unstoppable offense of 2025 as well, having scored 22 goals through Week 10. Don’t count out Gotham, though. They’re a team that rises to the occasion when it matters most and this weekend, in one of the key matches of Week 11, they could very well end the Current’s strong three-game win streak..

How to watch: NWSL+

Barbra Banda is on a mission this season — to score goals. In Week 10, Banda made history, scoring the club’s first-ever hat trick and doing so all in the first half. But that’s not all that’s coming at the Dash. Marta remains a constant threat and creator, and is one assist shy of reaching the 40 goal, 20 assists milestone. But don’t count out Houston, they recently had a two-goal outing against Bay FC, including Messiah Bright’s first for the club and a double-assist night from Bárbara Olivieri. If they can replicate that showing against the Pride and keep Barbra contained, the Dash could leave Orlando with points.

How to watch: ION

Deyna Castellanos returns to the Bay Area for the first time since she called it home last season as Bay FC hosts the Thorns this Saturday evening. Bay forward Penelope Hocking is in top form with goals in three straight games, Racheal Kundananji and Taylor Huff have been creative and consistent when needed, and goalkeeper Jordan Silkowitz has shown week after week she’s deserving of the starting spot. But Portland is stacked with a balance of veteran and rookie firepower, and will lean on rookie Jayden Perry — already with three PK conversions, a rookie record — and Reilyn Turner to supply the goals and Sam Coffey and Hina Sugita to supply the steadiness in the midfield. With Bella Bixby closing in on the Thorns' shutout record, this one could come down to which defense holds out the longest.

How to watch: ION

Riley Tiernan’s breakout rookie campaign rolls on with six goals to her name through Week 10, halfway to a rookie record. She isn’t the only dangerous attacker on the field for LA, though: Alyssa Thompson finally got her first PK goal to help Angel City notch their 100th regular-season goal, Christen Press is regaining form, and her connection with Thompson and Emslie could spell danger for Chicago. But don’t count out Chicago: watch for Ludmila to test the backline with her speed, Jameese Joseph and Ally Schlegel to take advantage of counter attacks and defensive weak points, and Alyssa Naeher to defend the net.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+, Golazo

In Week 10, Ashley Hatch notched her 21st career game-winner and Croix Bethune put pressure on the Reign backline to force an own goal, extending the Spirit’s road record this season to 5-0-0, tied for a league record. North Carolina, meanwhile, are coming off a tough loss in San Diego where they conceded a club-record five goals, but the Courage remain a team you underestimate at your own risk. Manaka Matsukubo continues to impress in midfield, Denise O’Sullivan anchors the squad with grit and vision, and the always dangerous Ashley Sanchez has a habit of scoring against her former club. With two possession-minded teams and plenty of midfield firepower, Sunday’s lone matchup is going to be must watch television.
