Below is a selection of moments to watch for and notes to know entering Week 15 of NWSL regular season action. Week 15 match coverage begins today as the Orlando Pride host OL Reign at Exploria Stadium. Kickoff is slated for 7:00 p.m. ET.

Below is a selection of moments to watch for and notes to know entering Week 15 of NWSL regular season action. Week 15 match coverage begins today as the Orlando Pride host OL Reign at Exploria Stadium. Kickoff is slated for 7:00 p.m. ET.

NOTES TO KNOW

WORLD CUP ROSTER WATCH

As the start of the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup looms ahead, 52 NWSL players have already been named to final rosters, and nine more have been named to preliminary squads. All 12 NWSL clubs have at least two rostered players playing in the World Cup. OL Reign has a league-high seven players on tournament rosters, while NJ/NY Gotham FC, the Houston Dash, Racing Louisville FC, the North Carolina Courage and the Washington Spirit each have six players. Twenty-two of the United States’ 23 players currently play in the NWSL, and Brazil’s final roster, which includes North Carolina Courage star Kerolin and all-time World Cup scoring leader Marta of the Orlando Pride, features eight NWSL players.

CHECK THE STANDINGS

After Week 14, the standings remain very close. North Carolina took over first place this week with a 1-0 win against Houston, giving the team a league-leading 26 points, while a loss brought Portland down to second place with 25 points. Just six points separate the first-place Courage and sixth-place San Diego Wave FC. Three clubs sit less than five points below the playoff line with eight weeks of regular season play remaining in the 2023 campaign.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

HEADS UP

Ol Reign made an impressive comeback against Racing on Saturday, scoring back-to-back goals in the final eight minutes to end the match in a 2-2 draw after trailing for the first three quarters of the contest. Both goals from forwards Veronica Latsko and Elyse Bennett were scored via headers, marking OL Reign’s third and fourth consecutive goals scored on headers, bringing their total to nine on the season. With eight games still to play in their regular season slate, OL Reign are on track to break the NWSL record for most header goals scored by one team in a single season. The record of 11 is currently held by the 2022 North Carolina Courage, 2018 Chicago Red Stars, 2016 Portland Thorns and 2014 Western New York Flash squads.

I LOVE LUSSI

Tyler Lussi once again came through as the hero for the North Carolina Courage, notching her fourth goal of the season, all of which have been game winners. Lussi’s goal at the 59 minute mark was all the Courage needed to defeat the Houston Dash 1-0 on Saturday. She now shares the top spot with Gotham’s Lynn Williams for the most game winning goals in the league this season. Lussi’s four game winners also put her in position to break the club record if she scores another.

CAROLINA CLEAN

North Carolina’s win last Saturday marked the club’s eighth shutout of the season, which leads the league. Week 14’s clean sheet came from goalkeeper Katelyn Rowland in her first start of the season, while the other seven were registered by Casey Murphy, who leads the league in clean sheets this season. The Courage have five shutouts in a row dating back to June 3.

CURRENT AFFAIRS

Last Saturday, the Kansas City Current took down the Portland Thorns for the first time in franchise history. The two teams had played eight times heading into last weekend’s matchup, including in the 2022 NWSL Championship, which ended in a 2-0 win for the Thorns. With the win, the Current have wins against every NWSL club with the exception of Angel City FC. Kansas City will have another chance at taking down the LA expansion team when the two teams square off on September 1 at Children’s Mercy Park.

WEEK 15 MATCH SCHEDULE

July 7, 2023

Orlando Pride vs. OL Reign | Exploria Stadium | 7:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Racing Louisville FC vs. Kansas City Current | Lynn Family Stadium | 8:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Houston Dash vs. Chicago Red Stars | Shell Energy Stadium | 8:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

July 8, 2023

San Diego Wave FC vs. Washington Spirit | Snapdragon Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | Paramount+

July 9, 2023

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Portland Thorns FC | Red Bull Arena | 5:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Angel City FC vs. North Carolina Courage | BMO Stadium | 8:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+
