This week, ESPN FC unveiled its top 50 ranking of women’s soccer players worldwide, with 13 NWSL stars from eight different clubs making the cut. This diverse representation highlights the league's unparalleled competitiveness, both for fans and elite players around the globe. Here’s who made the list and where they were ranked.

Esther González (Gotham FC - Forward) Rank: 50

Esther has continued to be a game changer for Gotham FC, showing versatility as a forward who can also drop into a playmaking role, contributing 15 goal involvements (11 goals, 4 assists).

Tarciane (Houston Dash - Defender) Rank: 45

At 21, Tarciane is the future for both club and country. Her height and strong tackling ability make her a key asset, with her ability to find the back of the net an added bonus.

Rose Lavelle (Gotham FC - Midfielder) Rank: 44

Known for her vision and creativity and her love for dogs, Lavelle celebrated her 100th cap with the USWNT and continues to elevate Gotham’s midfield with 8 goals and an assist.

Alyssa Naeher (Chicago Red Stars - Goalkeeper Rank: 30

Naeher is known for her clutch saves and shot-stopping for both club and country, and her calm and steady presence behind her defenders. For the USWNT, she made two famous saves to keep their lead, securing their first gold medal at the Olympics since London in 2012.

Delphine Cascarino (San Diego Wave FC - Forward) Rank: 29

Cascarino arrived in San Diego halfway through the season but brought an instant offensive boost to San Diego, adding 3 goals and 2 assists in 10 games. She is a player that will surely be a key component of their attack next season.

Marta (Orlando Pride - Forward) Rank: 26

At 38, Marta’s time with Brazil has ended, but her resurgence has been key in helping Orlando win its first NWSL Shield. Known for her superior vision, calm penalty conversions, and on- and off-field mentality and leadership, she consistently is regarded as one of the best footballers of all time.

Ann-Katrin Berger (NJ/NY Gotham FC - Goalkeeper) Rank: 25

The highest-ranked goalkeeper on the list, Berger has been instrumental for Gotham FC, anchoring their defense and guiding them to their first-ever home playoff game. Her impact extends to the international stage with Germany, where her clutch penalty saves secured the bronze medal at the Olympics.

Temwa Chawinga (Kansas City Current - Forward) Rank: 19

Chawinga made history by breaking the NWSL single-season scoring record with 20 goals and becoming the first player to score against every NWSL team in one season. She also scored the game-winning goal in Kansas City’s first-ever home playoff game, securing their spot in the semifinals.

Mallory Swanson (Chicago Red Stars - Forward) Rank: 15

Returning from injury that sidelined her for most of 2023, Swanson scored the Olympic gold-winning goal for the USWNT and has resumed her impactful play as a game-changer for the Red Stars (7 goals, 4 assists).

Trinity Rodman (Washington Spirit - Forward) Rank: 8

Rodman’s flair, speed, and dribbling skills make her one of the most entertaining players in the NWSL, contributing 14 goal involvements (8 goals, 6 assists) and excelling on both offense and defense.

Sophia Smith (Portland Thorns - Forward) Rank: 5

Smith’s electric speed and technical finesse solidify her as a top-tier No. 9, netting 12 goals and adding 6 assists for Portland to finish third in the Golden Boot race. Her standout performance with the USWNT in the Olympics further elevated her profile in 2024, marking her as a player destined to be in the spotlight for years ahead.

Barbra Banda (Orlando Pride - Forward) Rank: 3

Banda’s first NWSL season has been transformative for Orlando, with 15 goals and 6 assists for her club, which helped them lift their first-ever NWSL Shield. She also scored a historic three hat tricks at the Paris Olympics for her national team, Zambia.

Naomi Girma (San Diego Wave FC - Center Back)Rank: 2

Regarded as one of the best defenders in the world, Girma is a dangerous combination of athleticism, intelligence, and tactical awareness, making her a cornerstone for the Wave and the USWNT.
