The Summer of Soccer is upon us, and the NWSL Challenge Cup presented by e.l.f. comes to Columbus, Ohio on June 26. Long before the 2025 Champions Gotham FC and Shield winners Kansas City Current walk the e.l.f. teal carpet and take the pitch, there will be plenty to do. Here’s everything you need to know about the festivities.

NWSL x The Moth: "Proud and Loud," presented by Tylenol

In honor of Pride Month, the NWSL is hosting an evening of storytelling in partnership with The Moth, presented by Tylenol. Former NWSL players and a storyteller from Athlete Ally’s local chapter will share their personal stories around Pride after working with The Moth’s world-class coaches. All proceeds from the event will benefit Athlete Ally, a nonprofit organization dedicated to advancing LGBTQ+ inclusion in sports.

The event begins at 7 p.m. and is hosted by Julian Goldhagen at District West.

Miranda Freedman, President, Athlete Ally Columbus

Kika Toulouse, NWSL alumna and broadcaster

Sinead Farrelly, NWSL alumna and Beyond the Field member (BTF)

Tickets are donation based and can be purchased here.

Fan Zone presented by Nationwide

Before kickoff, check out the NWSL Fan Zone, presented by Nationwide, for a pre-match celebration packed with live entertainment, interactive fan experiences, and an NWSL Player Meet and Greet, presented by Ally. There will also be performances from The Fretters and DJ BLCKUNICORN.

Then join your fellow fans for our March to the Match, a parade to ScottsMiracle-Gro Stadium led by The Ohio State University Pep Band.

If you want a photo opportunity, the NWSL’s Summer of Soccer tour bus will be parked outside the stadium on gameday. Meet us at the bus. You never know who will stop by.

Tailgate presented by e.l.f.

Come and enjoy the Tailgate presented by e.l.f., 6 p.m. through the first half of the match. Ticketed attendees are invited to enjoy a skills challenge, food and beverage options, giveaways, entertainment, and other activities - the perfect way to start your match experience!

There will be a no bag policy in effect at ScottsMiracle-Gro Field for the match.

Retail

Players will arrive to ScottsMiracle Gro Field on the e.l.f. teal carpet from 6 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. After player arrivals, the teal carpet will be open for fans to walk.

Ally cardholders get a 20% discount off NWSL merchandise onsite.

Retail locations will be in Sections 101 and 112.

Bid on gameworn Challenge Cup Jerseys with MatchWornShirt

Entertainment

The NWSL Main Stage presented by e.l.f. will feature a halftime performance from singer Amber Mark, who blends soul, fun, dream-pop and more. Joaquina will sing “The Star-Spangled Banner,” and The Ladies of the Lincoln will sing “Lift Every Voice and Sing.” DJ Pastel will be keeping the vibes up as the in-game DJ.
