NWSL Playoffs Preview: No. 3 Portland Thorns FC vs. No. 6 San Diego Wave FC | November 9 at 3PM ET on ABC

Sunday, November 9 | 3 PM ET | ABC

Two heavyweights. Two different kinds of resurrection.

The Portland Thorns enter the postseason surging, rediscovering their rhythm and pedigree behind a new generation of talent. The San Diego Wave, meanwhile, are back from whatever teams do when they don’t make the postseason.

It’s a rematch of the 2022 semifinal, a 2-1 Portland win sealed by a stoppage-time strike from Crystal Dunn that sent the Thorns to the title. Providence Park was electric that day and the cathedral of soccer is sure to be just as packed this Sunday for what could be the most intriguing matchup of the weekend.

Keep the momentum rolling and let the youth cook. That’s what the Thorns have to do if they want to advance to the semifinals. Olivia Moultrie is on a heater, scoring braces for both club and country in the past month and earning her first career playoff assist last season. At just 20, she’s already the heartbeat of Portland’s attack, picking up from her hero, the legendary Christine Sinclair. This is the first time the Thorns will be in the playoffs without the Canadian goalscorer, but they seem to be ready to take up the task without her.

Behind Moultrie, Thorns captain Sam Coffey continues to anchor everything. She leads the club in minutes, tackles, and final-third passes, dictating tempo and rhythm with composure beyond her years. She’s no stranger to scoring and assisting as well, and has been known to convert her penalties if it comes to it on Sunday.

However, she may not have to. Rookie Jayden Perry is three-for-three from the spot this season, the first time in NWSL history a rookie has reached the milestone. Along with her three penalties, Portland’s rookies combined for nine goals this season, with Pietra Tordin and Caiya Hanks (now out with an injury) all stepping up in key moments. Add in Reilyn Turner, who’s having a breakout season, and the stoic presence of Mackenzie Arnold in front of the net and the Thorns are a dangerous opponent, with the Thorns faithful doing the rest. The Thorns led the league in attendance (18,173 avg.) and know how to feed off the crowd’s energy.

Stay fearless and let the French connection flow. If the Wave follow that game plan, a quarterfinal upset is possible for them.

The Wave looked down and out a month ago after a strong start to the season, going 7W-3L-3D before the summer break. Returning from vacation proved hard for San Diego despite some strong summer additions, but under head coach Jonas Eidevall in his first year in the NWSL, they’ve clawed their way back.

And a large part of that success is owed to the French three. Half of the Wave’s 41 goals this year have involved Delphine Cascarino (5 goals, 6 assists), Kenza Dali (5 and 3), and Perle Morroni (1 and 4). Cascarino’s creativity, Dali’s midfield control, and Morroni’s service from deep give San Diego a multi-layered attack few can match, and it’s one that may prove tricky for the Thorns. Brazilian defender Dudinha, one of the Wave’s summer signings and just 18, has added another spark, scoring five times in her first ten NWSL games, including the opener on Decision Day.

Kailen Sheridan, one of the most decorated goalkeepers in the league and a Wave original, will also be integral to a complete game from the visitors. The Canadian just surpassed 600 career regular season saves this season, the second-ever in league history, and leadership and level-headedness will be vital on Sunday.

This is the seventh home playoff match in Thorns history — the most of any NWSL club — and their second postseason meeting with San Diego after that 2022 semifinal. But the Wave haven’t lost to the Thorns since: they’re unbeaten in four straight across all competitions (W2 D2), making for a strong possibility of an upset.

Portland, however, enters as the higher seed and a club rejuvenated, with a squad of proven vets and excited youth ready to prove themselves in front of their beloved home fans. San Diego arrives as the comeback story, though, and that’s never one to count out.

See who rises from the chaos this Sunday, November 9 at 3:00 PM ET on ABC.

Check out the 2025 NWSL Playoffs Hub.
