When Lori Lindsey retired from soccer in 2015, she thought the next phase of her career would be as a fitness trainer. After playing on the college, club, and international level, including the 2011 FIFA Women’s World Cup, staying in the fitness world felt like the natural next step.

It wasn’t the right fit, but with encouragement from a friend, Lindsey found a new path, one that brought her back to the beautiful game as a commentator.

“The rest is history … I just said yes to everything,” Lindsey said. “I fell in love with it, much like playing soccer in the sense that it’s a craft.”

She started with any gig she could get beginning in 2018. From the grind of covering the Sun Belt Conference to her now-regular duties for the NWSL (Sports on Prime) and MLS, Lindsey put in the work and it paid off.

In a matter of five years, Lindsey was on the call for the 2023 Women’s World Cup in Australia alongside play-by-play announcer Jacqui Oatley. By stepping into the booth on June 14, 2026 in Philadelphia, she made history as the first former NWSL player to call a FIFA Men’s World Cup broadcast.

“This is the sport that keeps on giving,” Lindsey said.

In the opening weekend of this summer’s tournament, Lindsey was on the call for Ivory Coast vs. Ecuador in Philadelphia and Saudi Arabia vs. Uruguay in Miami. Soccer fans from all over the world tuned in and heard Lindsey and her teammate, legendary play-by-play announcer JP Dellacamera, call both matches.

Through the first 13 days of the tournament, Lindsey will be on eight matches.

“It’s all adrenaline,“ Lindsey said.

Lori Lindsey’s search for a captive audience has been a lifelong pursuit. The soccer pitch was her first stage, and after a (very) brief stint in acting class as a kid, it became the main stage of her life. To understand her relationship with soccer, it’s important to understand Lindsey’s late father, Larry.

“He is the biggest factor in my soccer career, bar none,” she said.

This moment in her career is a bittersweet one. Larry passed away in December of 2025.

Lindsey said her father was “a curmudgeon in the best way,” but without fail, he would send text messages with his commentary on her match assignments. In the weeks after he passed away, Lindsey and her siblings heard from Larry’s friends that he never stopped bragging about his kids.

“Even when he wouldn’t tell me, I knew he was watching the games,” she said. “He could just turn on a soccer game and hear my voice. I wish he could hear this World Cup.”

Larry, however, is still woven into every call. The level of work it takes to call a game boils down to the details. The stats and storylines, the lineups and the game knowledge – and that’s before condensing it in a clear and entertaining way.

If Lindsey mastered attention to detail from her father, she learned about authenticity from her mother, Susan.

Lindsey’s parents divorced when she was just two years old. In 1982 and while living in Indiana, Susan came out as gay. Growing up, Lindsey’s mom and her partner cultivated a community of queer folks who celebrated holidays together and created a loving and nurturing environment.

But Lindsey knows this level of acceptance was not the norm at the time.

“She knows this, but it’s nice to keep repeating because it certainly wasn’t easy,” Lindsey said. “To see somebody living their truth in a time that was not going to be supportive is incredible.”

Still, Lindsey was on her own journey around her sexuality. While it was easier for her to understand what she was feeling, Lindsey said it still took her time to work it out for herself.

“I wasn’t hiding once I did come out,” Lindsey said.

As she progressed through her professional soccer career, Lindsey played in the WUSA, the WPS, and the NWSL as we know it, but it wasn’t until 2012 that she spoke publicly about her sexuality. She did so in no small part because of her mom.

“She was gonna explode if she didn’t come out,” Lindsey said. “To have that person, such an important figure in your life, there was just no other way that I was going to be living my life.”

Lindsey and Megan Rapinoe, a lifelong friend and former U.S. Women’s National teammate, both came out publicly in 2012.

“There were other gay people on the team that were in varying levels of out and not,” Rapinoe said in an interview with Abby Wambach. “But \[the three of us\] were gay.”

In the 14 years since that moment, things have changed for queer players in the NWSL. More are out and open than ever before. While that is, in part, because of players like Lindsey and Rapinoe, it is also because of the environment of women’s soccer cultivated by fans.

“It has largely been driven by queer people early on coming to games and making it feel inclusive,” she said. “That has a profound impact on players coming out and feeling comfortable. It just grows from there.”

The connection between the players and fans of the NWSL allows Lindsey and her peers the freedom to bring themselves to the game – whether it’s on the pitch or in the broadcast booth. Lindsey is bringing all of that to every call.

“The work that we do to tell stories and what's happening on the field, I take that very seriously,” Lindsey said. “It makes me feel close to the game. It's the growth that the women’s game and these players deserve .. It just feels like we haven’t even scratched the surface.”
