North Carolina Courage 2-0 Angel City FC

Gotham FC 1-1 Portland Thorns San Diego Wave 3-2 Racing Louisville Kansas City Current 3-2 North Carolina Courage Orlando Pride 1-2 Utah Royals Denver Summit 6-1 Chicago Stars Washington Spirit 1-0 Bay FC Seattle Reign 1-0 Houston Dash

Boston Legacy 2-5 Angel City FC

Janine Sonis and Ryan Williams both reached 10,000 career regular-season minutes, with Williams playing all of them with the Courage.

Ashley Sanchez scored a brace and is now one goal away from setting a new record for most goals scored by an American in one NWSL season.

San Diego’s Trinity Byars has rocketed up the Golden Boot leaderboard, with 10 goals total and braces in back-to-back games. She was vital in their 3-2 comeback win Friday night.

Denver's Yuzuki Yamamoto and Oliva Thomas scored their first NWSL goals.

Denver put on an attacking clinic Saturday night, scoring six times in a 6-1 rout of Chicago. Janine Sonis got things started in the 13th minute before Melissa Kössler doubled the lead six minutes later. Yuzuki Yamamoto, Natasha Flint, and Kössler again piled on after halftime before Olivia Thomas capped the night in the 85th minute. The six goals are the most scored by an NWSL team in a match this season, with five different Denver players finding the back of the net.

Racing Louisville looked firmly in control after Lauren Milliet and Taylor Flint gave the visitors a 2-0 first-half lead in San Diego. Then the Wave flipped the script.

Trinity Byars pulled one back just after halftime and struck again in the 76th minute to level the score before Kenza Dali delivered the winner four minutes later. Three unanswered goals turned a two-goal deficit into a 3-2 victory, completing the biggest comeback in San Diego Wave history.

Two new Spirit players made their debuts for the club after competing in WAFCON. Monique Ngock, who led Cameroon to a historic win at WAFCON, and Mélissa Bethi, who won bronze with Algeria, saw their first game action for their new team. Bethi is the first Algerian player to appear in the NWSL, and Ngock was named the tournament's Woman of the Competition.

One of the league's most dangerous partnerships keeps delivering. Ashley Sanchez and Evelyn Ijeh combined for their seventh NWSL goal of the season, moving within one of the league's single-season record for two teammates combining on goals for either player in the pair. Sam Kerr and Yuki Nagasato set the mark with eight combinations in both 2018 and 2019. With plenty of season still ahead, Sanchez and Ijeh are knocking on the door of history.

Angel City FC made a meal of an East Coast trip, beating the Boston Legacy 5-2 at Gillette Stadium on Monday night, but it was a Massachusetts natives on both sides who got things started early. Ally Sentnor opened up scoring for Angel City, and just three minutes later, Sammy Smith, leveled the match for Boston. Sentnor and Smith hail from Hanson, the same hometown as Sam and Kristie Mewis.

Croix Bethune doubled the Kansas City Current's lead over the Courage, and in a thrilling game, she had no choice but to hit the "Thriller" celly.
