NEW YORK (January 25, 2024) -

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the schedule and broadcast details for the 2024 NWSL regular season.

NEW YORK (January 25, 2024) - The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the schedule and broadcast details for the 2024 NWSL regular season.

The 2024 campaign marks the beginning of the league’s landmark four-year domestic media rights agreements with CBS Sports, ESPN, Prime Video and Scripps Sports that will see 121 matches, including 113 regular season contests, all seven playoff fixtures and the 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup, featured on national platforms throughout the season. Kicking off the 2024 regular season slate in historic fashion, the Kansas City Current, led by Brazilian international star Debinha, will host U.S. Women’s National Team mainstay Sophia Smith and Portland Thorns FC in the inaugural match at CPKC Stadium, the first purpose-built stadium for a women’s professional sports team. The regular season opener, set for a 1 p.m. ET kickoff on Saturday, March 16, will air live on ABC, marking the first NWSL match to be broadcast on the network. Opening weekend coverage continues with a full Saturday of matches, including the return of Utah Royals FC as the club hosts the Chicago Red Stars at America First Field and the start of a fresh west coast rivalry as expansion club Bay FC kicks off its NWSL campaign on the road against Angel City FC. Both contests will air live on Scripps-owned ION. Facing off in the 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, New Jersey on Friday, March 15 on Prime Video ahead of regular season kickoff, reigning NWSL Champion NJ/NY Gotham FC and San Diego Wave FC, winners of the 2023 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, will open their respective regular season campaigns the weekend of March 22-24. In total, each team will compete in 26 regular season matches, 13 at home and 13 on the road. Throughout the 2024 season, 121 matches will be distributed across the following partner platforms:

The NWSL will begin each regular season weekend with Friday night matches on Prime Video.

Each Saturday night that follows will include a double-header on Scripps-owned ION network, available over-the-air in 123 million homes.

A package of regular season matches will air on The CBS Television Network and stream live on Paramount+, with additional matches airing on CBS Sports Network.

ESPN will air a package of matches across ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, and ESPN Deportes (Spanish). All NWSL matches on ESPN platforms and on ABC will stream live on ESPN+ in English and Spanish. The package also includes English, Spanish and Portuguese-language rights in Latin America.

The remaining matches will be available on NWSL+, the league’s first-ever domestic direct-to-consumer streaming platform. NWSL+ is free to all fans tuning in to matches across the U.S. and available to download on all iOS/Android devices, as well as streaming TV distributors Apple TV, Fire TV and Roku. In addition to match coverage, highlights, select replays and additional league and club content will also be available for free on the app. Details regarding international distribution will be announced in the coming weeks.

Additional Schedule Highlights:

Defending NWSL Champion Gotham FC, bolstered by the offseason additions of free agents Tierna Davidson, Crystal Dunn, Rose Lavelle and Emily Sonnett, will take on newly rebranded Seattle Reign FC, led by veterans Lauren Barnes and Jess Fishlock, in a rematch of the 2023 NWSL Championship on Sunday, June 30 at Red Bull Arena, airing live on ESPN2, ESPN Deportes and ESPN+.

The league’s two newest clubs, Bay FC and the Utah Royals, will square off Sunday, June 16 at PayPal Park in San Jose in a match featuring the No. 1 and No. 2 picks from the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, in UNC products Ally Sentnor and Savy King. At 19 years and 18 years old, respectively, the pair are two of the youngest talents to be drafted in league history. The match will air live on CBS Sports Network.

The 2024 Cascadia Rivalry between the Portland Thorns and Seattle Reign kicks off Saturday, May 11 at Providence Park in Portland, airing on ION. Southern California’s newest soccer derby returns on Thursday, May 24 as forward Alyssa Thompson and Angel City FC host FIFPro Women’s World11 honoree Alex Morgan the San Diego Wave at BMO Stadium in Los Angeles and live on CBS Sports Network.

The regular season concludes on Sunday, November 3 ahead of the NWSL playoffs. As part of the league’s expanded postseason format, eight clubs will qualify for the quarterfinal round taking place the weekend of November 9-10. The semifinal round kicks off the weekend of November 16-17 ahead of the NWSL Championship on November 23. CBS and Prime Video will have rights to one quarterfinal each while ESPN/ABC will air the remaining pair of quarterfinal matches. CBS and ESPN/ABC will also host one semifinal contest each.

For the third-straight season, the NWSL Championship will air live in primetime on the CBS Television Network and stream on Paramount+. Additional notable coverage across CBS platforms includes four matches featuring current NWSL champion Gotham FC, including a CBS doubleheader on August 24 leading off with the club hosting the Portland Thorns followed by the San Diego Wave at home against rival Angel City. The full 2024 regular season schedule can be seen here or below.

**2024 NWSL Regular Season Schedule Bold denotes 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup**
