NEW YORK (February 8, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the full schedule for the upcoming 2023 regular season slated to kick off on Saturday, March 25. The league also released schedule details for the newly formatted 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup, set to begin on Wednesday, April 19.

NEW YORK (February 8, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the full schedule for the upcoming 2023 regular season slated to kick off on Saturday, March 25. The league also released schedule details for the newly formatted 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup, set to begin on Wednesday, April 19.

The NWSL’s 11th regular season includes 12 teams in a single table, 22-match campaign with 11 home games and 11 away games per club. Comprised of a balanced 22-game schedule, the 132-game regular season will be played over 22 weeks, reducing the number of mid-week matches to minimize schedule congestion for player safety and optimal performance. The schedule has also been formatted to limit the number of regular season games staged during the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup to ensure the league’s top players are able to compete for both club and country with minimal conflicts. Opening weekend will see all 12 teams in action. Kicking off the 2023 campaign Saturday, March 25, goalkeeper Adrianna Franch and the Kansas City Current, last year’s NWSL Championship runner-up, head east to take on veteran midfielder Denise O’Sullivan and the 2022 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup Champion North Carolina Courage at WakeMed Soccer Park. In the club’s first full season at Snapdragon Stadium, forward Alex Morgan and San Diego Wave FC host Mallory Swanson (née Pugh) and the Chicago Red Stars in a star-studded matchup to close out opening night. Action continues Sunday, March 26 with a quartet of matches across the country. Headlined by reigning league and championship MVP Sophia Smith, Portland Thorns FC begins their title defense with a contest against Marta and the Orlando Pride at Providence Park. Former teammates Abby Erceg, Diana Ordóñez and Carson Pickett reunite as the Houston Dash host regional foe Racing Louisville FC in the team’s home opener at Shell Energy Stadium, while the Washington Spirit, led by USWNT mainstay Trinity Rodman, begin their home slate at Audi Field, hosting a veteran-lined OL Reign. Rounding out the weekend, Angel City FC, who averaged more than 19,000 fans in their inaugural season, kicks off their second year in the league with a battle of the coasts against NJ/NY Gotham FC and club newcomers Kelley O’Hara and Lynn Williams at BMO Stadium. In addition to the regular season, the UKG NWSL Challenge Cup returns for its fourth year Wednesday, April 19. For the first time since its inception in 2020, the Cup will run concurrently with the regular season, featuring three groups of four teams playing double round-robin matches for a total of six contests. Following group play, four teams will square off in semifinal matches on Wednesday, September 6 ahead of the UKG NWSL Challenge Cup Final on Saturday, September 9. Additional details regarding the Cup will be released at a later date.

Additional Schedule Highlights

In a rematch of the 2022 NWSL Championship, defending champion Portland will face Kansas City April 1 at Children’s Mercy Park. The Thorns edged the Current, 2-0, in last year’s season finale which drew a crowd of over 17,000 at Audi Field and a record 915,000 viewers on The CBS Television Network.

The first iteration of this season’s four-part Cascadia Rivalry between OL Reign and Portland is set for Saturday, June 3 at Lumen Field, followed by a regular season rematch at Providence Park on September 16. The two teams will also square off in a pair of matches as part of the UKG NWSL Challenge Cup.

The newest NWSL rivalry featuring the league’s two Southern California teams in Angel City FC and San Diego Wave FC will be tested on April 23 at BMO Stadium. The rivalry currently holds the NWSL single-match attendance record thanks to a sellout crowd of 32,000 during a meeting between the pair last September at Snapdragon Stadium.

For the first time in NWSL history, all 12 teams will compete on the final day of the regular season, highlighting the league’s parity and the playoff push.

The regular season concludes Sunday, October 15. Six teams will qualify for the NWSL playoffs, with the top two seeds receiving a first-round bye. The quarterfinal round will be played on October 22, followed by the semifinal round, set for November 4. The 2023 campaign will end with the 2023 NWSL Championship on November 11. Both the 2023 regular season and the 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup will appear across CBS Sports platforms, including The CBS Television Network, CBS Sports Network and Paramount+. Platform-specific details for all matches and information regarding international viewing will be shared in the coming weeks. The full 2023 regular season and 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup schedules can be seen below or on NWSLSoccer.com.

**2023 NWSL Season Schedule 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup matches in bold**
