It was another wild weekend in the NWSL. With the first international break of the season upon us, all of the action will surely be enough to hold fans over until league play picks back up on April 24. There was a seven-goal affair in Houston, a stoppage-time game winner in Orlando, and the first W of the season for the Spirit.

The San Diego Wave rolled into Foxborough, earning their fourth-straight win for the first time in club history and their spot at the top of the table. Ludmila scored her first goal since joining the Wave, and the Legacy couldn’t mount a comeback. The Boston Legacy’s inaugural campaign is still in need of the club’s first win, but holding the first place San Diego Wave to just a goal is a good sign from their defensive side as the offense is still finding its way.

The Orlando Pride handed Angel City their first loss of the season, thanks to Haley McCutcheon’s first career brace that included a stoppage-time game-winner. After a slow and scoreless start, the Pride and Angel City saved the chaos until the game’s final minutes. McCutcheon got on the board first with just six minutes of regular time left when Barbra Banda got the ball in front of Angelina Anderson and a cluster of defenders. McCutcheon swept it home, but the lead wasn’t safe in stoppage time. Gisele Thompson scored an incredible double-doink goal that hit the bottom of the crossbar, bounced sharply down, and back up again, but managed to cross the goal line. Just two minutes later, Marta took a corner for the Pride and after the ball jostled around in the box, McCutcheon knocked it home yet again to secure the win. If nothing else, it is always a wild ride when Orlando and Angel City face off.

It was an absolute barnburner in Houston on Friday night, with the Dash coming out on top and Racing still looking for their first win of the season. Both Houston’s Kiki Van Zanten and Taylor Flint earned braces in a wild back-and-forth match that was decided in a stoppage time PK conversion, the fourth of the game.

Flint converted the first PK of the game to put Louisville in the lead, and before the end of the first half, Houston equalized with a PK of their own scored by rookie Kat Rader. Sarah Weber scored early in the second half to give Racing the lead again, but less than two minutes later Van Zanten equalized with her first of the day. It was Van Zanten again to give the Dash their first lead of the game, her second brace of the season, and the lead in the Golden Boot race. Flint scored her second PK goal of the game, becoming the first player since Alex Morgan in 2022 to convert two PKs in two chances.

In the end it was Sarah Puntigam who got to play the part of hero for the Dash. In the final seconds of the game, Puntigam converted the game’s fourth PK for her first NWSL goal to seal the victory for the Dash.

After securing their first win in Matchweek 3, the Royals secured a shutout for their second-straight victory. The Chicago Stars, for their part, shook up the starting lineup, giving Katie Atkinson (formerly Lund) the nod to start in goal over veteran Alyssa Naeher, who was available off the bench. Mina Tanaka scored from the spot to put the Royals in the lead and break the scoreless stalemate for her second goal of the season. The Stars have been shut out in their last three matches after scoring four goals in a win over the Current in Matchweek 2.

In a preview of the 2026 Challenge Cup, presented by e.l.f. the Current bested Gotham FC for their first win since Matchweek 1. Both the 2025 NWSL Shield winners and the 2025 NWSL Champions stumbled out of the gate to start the season but seemed to find the glimmers that made both unstoppable last season.

Gotham’s Jaedyn Shaw was back in the starting lineup and opened up scoring for her first goal of the year. Temwa Chawinga was back in the lineup for the Current after being removed from SEI Friday afternoon, and it didn’t take long for her to get in on the fun.

Less than 10 minutes after Shaw scored, Debinha equalized for the Current thanks to a Chawinga assist and chased history along the way. The Brazilian is now second in NWSL history for goals scored in all competitions with 80, just two behind Seattle’s Lynn Biyendolo, who is out on maternity leave. Michelle Cooper scored the game winner for her first goal of the year, with an assist from Ally Sentnor. Gotham’s Emily Sonnett also hit a milestone in the match, becoming the 18th person in league history to play 15,000 regular season minutes.

It was a wild match in Cary between two of the league’s most historically dominant teams that saw four first half goals.

Portland’s Reilyn Turner headed her third of the year into the back of the net with an assist from Jayden Perry. In her first start of the year, Manaka Matsukubo equalized for the Courage. It was her second goal in as many games. Olivia Moultrie collected her third of the year, cashing in her own rebound off of North Carolina keeper Kailen Sheridan, who made a great initial save but couldn’t reel it in. The final goal of the game belonged to Ashley Sanchez, who equalized at 38’ with an assist from Ryan Williams. It was also Sanchez’s third goal of the year and Williams’s second assist.

It was a scoreless draw in Spokane, the first draw of the season for the Reign and the third consecutive clean sheet for the Summit. Seattle’s keeper Claudia Dickey broke Hope Solo’s record of most saves in Seattle Reign history, closing the match out with 190 under her belt.

For Denver, Abby Smith kept it locked down for the third straight game, making the Summit the first team to keep three consecutive clean sheets in their first five all-time regular-season NWSL games.

The Washington Spirit got their much-needed first win of the year in a gritty match against Bay FC. Despite several strong saves from Jordan Silkowitz, the Spirit got on the board by forcing an unusual own-goal late in the game. As the Spirit pressed forward, Silkowitz came off the goal line to clear the ball, but an unfortunate ricochet off her teammate’s shin sent the ball flying into the back of the net. Sometimes gritty beats pretty. Gift Monday made it a double when she scored off the bench in the 87th minute to secure the win.
