NEW YORK (September 16, 2025) -The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced a mid-cycle expansion of its landmark media rights package, building on agreements with CBS Sports and ESPN, and adding a new partnership with Victory+ through the 2026-27 seasons.

As part of this expanded package, ABC and ESPN networks will carry weekly regular season games, culminating in exclusive rights to all eight Decision Day matches. All NWSL on ESPN matches are available on the ESPN App via ESPN DTC or Pay TV authentication.

CBS Sports will add more regular season matches on CBS Sports Network, supplementing a lineup highlighted by the fifth consecutive primetime telecast of the NWSL Championship on CBS and Paramount+.

The addition of Victory+ as the league’s fifth media partner will significantly increase distribution, introducing 25 new weekly Sunday primetime broadcasts in 2026. This expansion will coincide with the debut of the league’s 15th and 16th teams and will include an additional 32 games, all of which will be available for free streaming on the Victory+ platform.

This mid-cycle expansion builds upon the groundbreaking domestic media rights deal the NWSL reached in 2023, which brought 121 national windows across CBS Sports, ESPN, Prime Video and Scripps/ION. Since its launch, the package has generated record viewership, quadrupling audiences in its first year and continuing to post surging gains across key demographics. Global sports marketing agency IMG, part of TKO Group Holdings, Inc., advised the NWSL and negotiated on its behalf.

“We are expanding the discoverability and reach of NWSL matches because the demand is there,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “These additional media packages will help us reach new audiences and build a new generation of fandom. The expanded commitments from CBS Sports and ESPN, paired with a new national Sunday night showcase with Victory+, bolster the NWSL’s trajectory of unprecedented growth.”

CBS Sports: 38 total matches (10 regular season, 1 quarterfinal, 1 semifinal and the NWSL Championship on CBS; 20 on CBS Sports Network; 5 on TBD platform)

ESPN: 36 total matches (33 regular season including all 8 Decision Day matches, plus 2 quarterfinals and 1 semifinal)

Victory+: 57 total matches (25 Sunday Night matches, plus 32 additional)

Prime Video: 27 total matches (25 regular season, 1 Challenge Cup, 1 quarterfinal)

Scripps/ION: 50 regular season Saturday night matches

NWSL+: 40 total matches

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

Contact:

Jennifer Levine

jlevine@nwslsoccer.com

Maddy Schachte

mschachte@nwslsoccer.com

Quote Sheet

Katie Boes; SVP, Content Partnerships, Victory+

"Our deal with the NWSL strengthens our commitment to making women's sports more accessible for new and returning fans. With the addition of these NWSL games we're building a true destination for women's sports content, right here on Victory+. We believe that by making these games free to fans, we can help build the next generation of fandom and continue the league’s amazing growth."

Neil Gruniger; President & CEO, APMC

“The NWSL is a driving force behind the growth in women's sports and we couldn’t be more excited to have them join Victory+. In just over a year we’ve expanded our offering of professional live sports, and are passionate about giving athletes a way to reach more fans.”

Dan Weinberg; EVP Programming, CBS Sports

"As the longest standing broadcaster of the NWSL, we continue to be proud partners of the league, showcasing an exciting slate of regular-season matches and high-stakes playoff action across our platforms, straight through the Championship match airing in primetime on CBS and Paramount+.

Rosalyn Durant; Executive Vice President, Programming and Acquisitions, ESPN

“The NWSL showcases some of the best athletes in the world. We are proud to increase our commitment on ABC and ESPN, and to further elevate women’s sports and the athlete stories.”
