me in the annals of the league’s record book as Portland Thorns FC captain Christine Sinclair and NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams became just the second and third players to score 60 regular-season goals in the NWSL. The duo, who have enjoyed storied careers for both club and country, are now just 17 goals behind the league record of 77 tallies, held by former Red Stars striker Sam Kerr.

Below is a selection of moments to watch for and notes to know entering Week 5 of NWSL regular season action. Week 5 match coverage begins at 8:30 p.m. ET on Friday as the Houston Dash host the North Carolina Courage at Shell Energy Stadium.

HISTORY TO BE MADE

Saturday’s contest between OL Reign and Racing Louisville FC will prove a historic one for the NWSL as the league celebrates its 1000th regular season match. The contest marks a significant moment for the NWSL, commemorating the league’s rich competitive history and honoring the many legends who have helped the league succeed on and off the field.? Among the players expected to feature in the milestone match are four members of an exclusive club of athletes who have competed in the NWSL every year since its inaugural campaign in 2013, including defender Lauren Barnes, midfielder Jess Fishlock and forwards Jess McDonald and Megan Rapinoe.? The match will also showcase the league’s next generation of starpower, including second-year stars Savannah DeMelo and Jaelin Howell, and goalkeeper Phallon Tullis-Joyce, who made her NWSL debut in 2021.?

ROOKIE WATCH

The next generation of NWSL stars have made an immediate impact on their respective teams. Entering Week 5, four draftees have found the scoresheet, including the 2023 NWSL Draft’s No. 1 overall pick Alyssa Thompson, who scored 11 minutes into her professional debut with Angel City FC, and Chicago Red Stars forward Penelope Hocking, who became the first draftee this season to record a brace. Orlando Pride striker Messiah Bright and Chicago midfielder Ally Schlegel have also earned their first career goals of the 2023 season. On the defensive half of the field, Orlando centerback Emily Madril is the only draftee to have played every minute of the regular season heading into Week 5. The Boise, Idaho native was drafted by the Pride with the third overall pick in the 2023 NWSL Draft after signing a professional contract with the league last August.?

TAKE A STAAB AT IT

If Washington defender Sam Staab earns a start for the Spirit’s match against the Chicago Red Stars this Saturday, the 26-year old will break the league record for consecutive regular season starts with 73 straight appearances. The record is currently shared between Staab and Spirit teammate Amber Brooks, who started in 72 regular season matches for the Houston Dash from 2017-2019.? A product of Clemson University, Staab was selected fourth overall by the Spirit in the 2019 NWSL Draft. The defender made her professional debut on April 13, 2019, against NJ/NY Gotham FC (then Sky Blue FC) and became just the second player in league history to play every minute of her rookie campaign.?

REIGN SUPREME

Appearing in the league’s 1000th regular season contest is not the only milestone OL Reign have the opportunity to celebrate this weekend. With a win in Saturday’s match against Racing Louisville, the Reign will become just the second team to reach 100 regular season wins in the league, joining Portland in achieving the feat.? Guiding the club through those wins is Reign captain Lauren Barnes, who has anchored the team’s backline since it began play in 2013. Set to appear in her 194th fixture for the club, Barnes is on track to become the first NWSL player to appear in 200 regular season matches. The Upland, California native is also the league’s all-time minutes leader.

FOOT RACE FOR 77

Over the weekend, two players etched their name in the annals of the league’s record book as Portland Thorns FC captain Christine Sinclair and NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams became just the second and third players to score 60 regular-season goals in the NWSL. The duo, who have enjoyed storied careers for both club and country, are now just 17 goals behind the league record of 77 tallies, held by former Red Stars striker Sam Kerr. Jumping out to a fast start with her new club, Williams enters Week 5 with three goals in four regular season matches, including two game-winning tallies. Sinclair, whose 60th career goal came as the game winner in the Thorns’ 2-0 win over Racing Louisville last Saturday, leads the league in goals scored for a single club.

WEEK 5 MATCH SCHEDULE

April 28, 2023

Houston Dash vs. North Carolina Courage | Shell Energy Stadium | 8:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

April 29, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. OL Reign | Lynn Family Stadium | 7:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Chicago Red Stars vs. Washington Spirit | SeatGeek Stadium | 8 p.m. ET | Paramount+ San Diego Wave FC vs. Orlando Pride | Snapdragon Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | CBS Sports Network Portland Thorns FC vs. Angel City FC | Providence Park | 10:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

April 30, 2023

Kansas City Current vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | Children’s Mercy Park | 6 p.m. ET | Paramount+
