The Kansas City Current became the fastest team in history to clinch the NWSL Shield presented by CarMax. With five games left in the regular season, the top of the table is locked and untouchable.

While the fact that the Current won the Shield is, on its own, impressive, the real story is just how dominant they have been all year.

After losing to the Orlando Pride in the semifinals last season, missing out on the opportunity to fight for the NWSL Championship on their home turf, the Current came into the 2025 season with a fire under them.

Thus began the Kansas City Current revenge tour.

Kansas City hasn’t lost a game since May 2 and are the only remaining team who is still undefeated at home this season. They dropped back-to-back games against the North Carolina Courage and the Seattle Reign, and since then, they’ve not dropped a single game – going 14 straight games unbeaten.

Temwa Chawinga has continued her reign of unrelenting scoring power in her second season. She and Gotham’s Esther González have spent much of the season switching in and out of first place for the Golden Boot race.

As it stands, Chawinga leads the race heading into Week 22 with 13 goals and two assists. The header goal on her birthday (September 20) put her back in the lead, making it the second time in as many years she got herself the gift of a goal to celebrate another trip around the sun.

Chawinga on her own is a threat enough, but the rest of the KC offense is putting up numbers, too. The team’s other four top scorers – Debinha, Bia, Michelle Cooper, and Lo’eau LaBonta – have combined for 20 goals.

The Current are outscoring opponents in the first half a staggering 24-1 so far this season and have a goal differential of +30 on the season. The second best goal differential in the league is Gotham with +10.

While the offense is firing on all cylinders, the defense has been quietly stitching together a historic season. As the season winds down, it’s less underwraps and more in your face just how locked down the Kansas City defense is.

The NWSL record for least conceded goals in regular season history is just 17, set by the dominant 2018 North Carolina Courage and matched by the 2021 Portland Thorns. Through Week 21, the Current have conceded just 10 goals. Total. For the season. This is in no small part thanks to clinical goalkeeping from Lorena. The Brazilian keeper is in her first NWSL season, but with 12 shutouts for the Current, it’s more than just beginner’s luck at play.

Kansas City has 14 clean sheets on the year and are in the midst of a record-breaking nine consecutive shutouts. The Current haven’t conceded a goal since June 14, holding opponents goalless for 812 minutes straight, a new NWSL record.

The Current became the fastest team in NWSL history to reach 50 points, doing so in just 20 games. The league record for total points was set last year by Orlando with a total of 60 points. With five games left to play, surpassing that number is well within reach for the Current.

There are still five games to go in the regular season, and fans everywhere know nothing is over in this league until the final whistle blows. Only two clubs have gone on to win the NWSL Championship after securing the NWSL Shield – the 2018 and 2019 North Carolina Courage and the 2024 Orlando Pride – but that won’t stop the Current from trying.
