NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

IN CASE YOU MISSED IT

The UKG NWSL Challenge Cup Semifinals saw two close games, with both road teams winning by 1-0. The Kansas City Current and North Carolina Courage played a gritty battle that saw no goals scored until the end of stoppage time. Both teams had plenty of chances, combining for 24 shots including eight on target against strong goalkeeping from Kansas City’s AD Franch and North Carolina’s Casey Murphy. Courage midfielder Brianna Pinto secured her club’s second consecutive Challenge Cup Final berth with a goal in the fifth of seven minutes in stoppage time. Racing Louisville FC defeated OL Reign at Lumen Field in a match where defense was more prominent than offense. The two teams combined for eight blocked shots and just four shots on goal, while time of possession was just about even. Racing forward Kirsten Davis scored in the 28th minute and Katie Lund’s two saves stopped OL Reign from coming back. The Courage defeated Racing 2-0 in the UKG NWSL Challenge Cup Final with a powerful offensive attack. North Carolina recorded 154 more passes than their opponent while reaching the goal on 11 of their 14 shots. Courage forward Kerolin struck first with an impressive goal from the side of the net in the 28th minute with an assist from Narumi. Midfielder Manaka added onto the lead with a goal in the 54th minute, the first of her NWSL career en route to being named UKG NWSL Final MVP.

A TALE OF TWO HALVES

Throughout this season’s Challenge Cup, Racing Louisville came out strong to start their matches, scoring eight of their 11 Cup goals in the first half. Their final opponent often saved their best for last, as the Courage had scored 12 of their 16 Cup goals in the second half leading into the final, including a Cup record six goals in the second half

100 GOALS

Kerolin’s goal in the final marked the 100th of the 2023 Challenge Cup. Her goal also makes her the first player to score in multiple Challenge Cup Finals, as she scored the opening goal in last year’s Final match as well.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

MANAKA MADNESS

19-year-old Manaka had a record-breaking performance in the Final, earning her the Final MVP award. North Carolina’s Japanese midfielder is the youngest player to start in a Challenge Cup knockout match, becoming just the second teenager to start a Challenge Cup Final after Washington Spirit forward Trinity Rodman did so in 2022. Manaka’s goal in the 54th minute makes her the youngest scorer in a Cup knockout game at age 19 years, 6 weeks, surpassing Kerolin who set the previous record last year at age 22 years, 6 months.

NORTH CAROLINA’S TROPHY CASE

With their win on Saturday, the Courage are now tied with the Portland Thorns for the most NWSL trophies with seven. North Carolina have won two NWSL Championships, two Challenge Cup finals, and three NWSL Shields. The Courage, who have never lost a Challenge Cup game at home, are the first team to win back-to-back Challenge Cup Finals, led by head coach Sean Nahas who has the most Challenge Cup wins by a coach with 10.

BEEN HERE BEFORE

Prior to this year’s match, no player had ever played in more than one Challenge Cup Final. Six players made their second Cup Final appearances on Saturday, including North Carolina’s Malia Berkely, Kerolin, Kaleigh Kurtz and Denise O’Sullivan, and Racing Louisville’s Abby Erceg and Paige Monaghan. With her appearance, Erceg became the first player to serve as a captain in six NWSL Final matches (four Championship games and two Challenge Cup finals).

LUND LEADING

Despite allowing two goals, Racing Louisville goalkeeper Katie Lund recorded nine saves, the most by any keeper in a Challenge Cup Final. The previous record was five, set by Washington Spirit keeper Aubrey Kingsbury in 2022 and former Gotham FC keeper DiDi Haracic in 2021.

CHALLENGE CUP KNOCKOUT RESULTS

Semifinals

Kansas City Current vs. North Carolina Courage | 0 – 1 | Match Recap OL Reign vs. Racing Louisville FC | 0 – 1 | Match Recap

Final

North Carolina Courage vs. Racing Louisville FC | 2 – 0 | Match Recap
