ESPN named their Top 25 Women's Soccer Players of the 21st Century, featuring many athletes who have made a significant impact on the NWSL throughout their careers. Since its inaugural year in 2013, the NWSL has attracted some of the world's best players. Their inclusion in ESPN’s list underscores the league's role in developing top-tier talent and contributing to the global growth of women's soccer.

#1 Marta (Orlando Pride): Regarded as one of the best players in the world, Marta leads ESPN’s list. The Brazilian forward has 104 appearances and 36 goals for the Pride and is her country’s leading goal scorer. Marta has won the FIFA World Player of the Year award six times and is celebrated for her exceptional skill, vision, and goal-scoring ability as well as her work in advocacy for equitable access to soccer in her home nation.

#6 Kim Little (Seattle Reign FC): One of Scotland’s most cherished players, Kim Little joined Seattle Reign FC in 2013 at the behest of coach Laura Harvey. Known for her leadership and creativity with the ball, she scored a brace in her first appearance for the Reign and became a fan favorite immediately. Little ended her first tenure with the Reign with 63 appearances and 32 goals, then returned on loan in 2022 for 6 appearances.

#13 Christine Sinclair (Portland Thorns FC): Christine Sinclair is singular. Currently the world’s leading international goal scorer, she has been a staple for Canada since 2000 and for the Portland Thorns since their very first match in 2013. Sinclair is a three-time NWSL Champion and she’s scored 64 goals in 191 games.

#14 Sam Kerr (Western New York Flash, Sky Blue FC, Chicago Red Stars): In 2019, Sam Kerr helped the Chicago Red Stars make their first NWSL Championship appearance in club history. That same year, Kerr earned her third NWSL Golden Boot award in a row and her second NWSL MVP award. She is still the only player in league history to earn the MVP award twice. Kerr led the NWSL in career goals with 77 goals, a record that would not be broken until 2024. An exhilarating player to watch, she’s known for her backflip goal celebrations and larger-than-life personality.

#15 Megan Rapinoe (Seattle Reign FC): On Sunday, August 24th, Reign FC will officially retire the number 15 jersey, the first player in club history to have their jersey retired. This honor underscores Megan Rapinoe's profound influence not only on the field but also within the Seattle community and the Reign organization. Rapinoe ended her career with 115 appearances, 51 goals, and 26 assists for the Reign and for country, 203 appearances and 63 goals.

#18 Dzsenifer Marozsán (OL Reign): In 2021, Dzsenifer Marozsán joined OL Reign (Seattle Reign FC) on loan. A hero of the German national team, it was her game winning goal during the 2016 Olympic gold medal match that secured glory for her country. For Reign, it was a chance for Marozsán to reset with a new change of scenery, and she made 19 appearances with 16 starts and assisted 3 goals.

#19 Alex Morgan (Portland Thorns FC, Orlando Pride, San Diego Wave): Alex Morgan is one of the most prolific forwards in women's soccer and a globally recognized name in the sport. A two-time FIFA World Cup winner and Olympic gold medalist, she has played for several clubs, including the Portland Thorns (where she won the NWSL title in 2013), Orlando Pride, and San Diego Wave FC (won the Shield in 2023), where she currently plays and has been instrumental in the young club’s success. In the NWSL, Morgan has played in 147 games and has put 60 goals in the back of the net.

#22 Amandine Henry (Portland Thorns FC, Angel City FC, Utah Royals FC): French midfielder Amandine Henry joined Portland Thorns FC in 2016 and was present for two of the club’s most successful years. In 2016, the Thorns and Henry lifted their first NWSL Shield and in 2017, they secured their second NWSL Championship title. Henry has also spent time in Los Angeles with Angel City FC and currently plays in Utah with expansion team Utah Royals FC.

#23 Hope Solo (Seattle Reign FC): Hope Solo, one of the most iconic goalkeepers in soccer history and known for her exceptional athletic shot-stopping abilities and commanding presence in goal, had an impressive career with the Seattle Reign FC and is the most capped goalkeeper in U.S. history. She played a pivotal role in securing two Olympic gold medals (2008, 2012) and the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup.

#24 Abby Wambach (Western New York Flash): Abby Wambach retired from professional soccer in 2015, capping off her illustrious career by winning the World Cup that same year as the world’s all-time leading goal scorer with 184 goals (which would eventually be surpassed by Christine Sinclair). Her impact on the game and for the USWNT is undeniable and during her tenure with the Western New York Flash, she played a crucial role in their success, leading the team to clinch the NWSL Shield in 2013.
