NEW YORK (June 6, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, for the month of May by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

GK – Claudia Dickey (SEA): Dickey recorded two clean sheets, tied for the most in the league for the month.

D – Trinity Armstrong (SD): The youngest player in NWSL history to be named to the Best XI of the Month, the 17-year-old defender appeared in every minute of play in May, anchoring the backline during the Wave’s longest unbeaten stretch in club history.

D – Hailie Mace (KC): Mace logged a full 90 minutes in all four matches during the month of May while helping Kansas City to a 3-1-0 ledger

D – Casey Krueger (WAS): Subbing on for the second half of the May 17 home match against Utah, Krueger scored a clutch equalizer late in stoppage time to give the club a point in a 3-3 tie.

D – Gisele Thompson (LA): The defender added a goal and two assists in four matches for Angel City.

M – Sam Coffey (POR): The veteran midfielder tallied a goal and an assist in three matches for the Thorns throughout May.

M – Taylor Flint (LOU): Flint led her club in scoring with two goals in May, leading the club to a 3-1-0 record throughout the month.

M – Manaka Matsukubo (NC): The Japanese international’s three-goal haul was tied for a league-best mark during the month of May.

F – Barbra Banda (ORL): Banda scored her first NWSL hat trick and the first hat trick in Orlando Pride club history in a 3-1 victory over Utah Royals FC on May 23.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): The NWSL Player of the Month, the reigning NWSL MVP and Golden Boot winner scored in three straight games to close out the month.

F – Riley Tiernan (LA): Named the NWSL Rookie of the Month for the second consecutive month, Tiernan leads all rookies in scoring and sits tied for third in the Golden Boot race.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league consistently, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of May are based on performances during NWSL regular season matches.
