NEW YORK (July 12, 2024) *-*The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of June by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Five teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including the Chicago Red Stars, the Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, the Orlando Pride and the Washington Spirit.

GK – Anna Moorhouse (ORL): Moorhouse recorded 20 saves, allowing just one goal throughout June, to help the Pride extend its undefeated run this season. The England international has a save percentage of 95.24% throughout the month and recorded her third straight clean sheet in the club’s 3-0 victory over Angel City FC on June 30.

D – Elizabeth Ball (KC): Ball earned a spot on the Best XI after recording three assists throughout the month and registering a passing accuracy of 83.77% in 360 minutes played. Ball added 13 duels won and two blocks during June.

D – Jenna Nighswonger (GFC): The 2023 Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally, recorded eight tackles and 24 duels won in June. Nighswonger played 387 minutes and notched one assist throughout the month.

D – Casey Krueger (WAS): Krueger played a total of 360 minutes during June, recording nine interceptions and three tackles. The Illinois native tallied one assist in the Spirit’s victory against NJ/NY Gotham FC on June 15. As a staple on the Spirit’s backline, Krueger has helped Washington remain in the third place on the standings with a 10-4-1 record this season.

D – Izzy Rodriguez (KC): Rodriguez recorded four tackles won along with five interceptions during June to earn a spot in the Best XI this month. The Michigan native played a total of 360 minutes this month, adding 17 duels won.

M – Croix Bethune (WAS): Bethune earned Rookie of the Month honors for the third straight month as the midfielder continues to break records, recording one goal and one assist in June. The No. 3 overall pick in the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, Bethune leads all rookies with five goals and nine assists by the end of June.

M – Rose Lavelle (GFC): Lavelle recorded three goals in four games played throughout June with a passing accuracy of 80.57%. The Cincinnati native added eight shots on target, three interceptions, and three tackles won to her stat sheet throughout the month.

M – Lo’eau LaBonta (KC): LaBonta recorded three goals, including one brace on June 23 in the club’s 4-1 victory over the Portland Thorns. The California native played 346 minutes throughout the month including two tackles won and five shots on target.

F – Barbra Banda (ORL): The Copper Queen scored three goals and three assists in four games to extend her electric start to the NWSL season. Banda notched her fourth brace of the season on June 21 in the Pride’s 6-0 win over the Utah Royals, tying the league record.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): The June Player of the Month, presented by EA SPORTS, Temwa Chawinga recorded six goals and two assists in four games this past June, scoring in all four games played and recording two braces. The Malawi international has totaled 11 goals in 15 games to lead the NWSL Golden Boot race due to assists, helping the Kansas City Current to a record-breaking undefeated start in NWSL history.

F – Mallory Swanson (CHI): Mallory Swanson recorded three goals and one assist throughout June. In 359 minutes of action, Swanson recorded a goal in three straight games, including the club’s 3-0 victory over the San Diego Wave FC on June 28.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.
