NWSL Free Agency started July 1, meaning any player with a contract expiring at the end of the year can begin negotiations with their current clubs or see what other teams may offer.

Let's take a look at some top free agents who could be on the move. A full list of 2027 free agents is available here, as well as a free agency tracker to keep your finger on pulse. Game on.

Leicy Santos is in her third NWSL season – all with the Washington Spirit. The Colombian midfielder scored four goals and two assists for the Spirit before the summer break.

The Brazilian GOAT is in her 10th season with the Orlando Pride. With the FIFA Women's World Cup heading to Brazil next year, all eyes will be on Marta and where she lands.

Portland Thorns and U.S. Women's National Team star Sophia Wilson's return to the lineup after maternity leave made waves earlier this season. She's shown no signs of slowing down in her return and is one goal to shy of 50 regular season goals. Wilson would be just the fourth player to reach that milestone with one club.

Going into the summer break, Gotham led the league in clean sheets, and that is largely in part to Ann-Katrin Berger in goal. She's earned seven shutouts this season and 25 in three seasons with Gotham. Add her fancy footwork into the mix, and Berger is a formiddable force that helped lead Gotham to their 2025 Championship run.

Debinha's 10 years in the NWSL have been split between the North Carolina Courage and Kansas City Current. She's just one win away from her 100th regular season win and needs just one game-winning goal to become the third player in NWSL history to score 20 regular season game winners.

Gotham's 2025 Championship MVP, Rose Lavelle's role as midfield maestro can change games on a dime. With Emily Sonnett signing a contract extension just before Challenge Cup, Lavelle's future with Gotham is to be decided.

Veteran Midge Purce enters free agency but has been with Gotham since 2020. The 2023 NWSL Championship MVP, Purce's leadership and reputation make her an asset both on and off the pitch.

Jessie Fleming has played every minute of the season and set the tempo for a Portland Thorns midfield since Sam Coffey's depature.

Pietra Tordin rounds out a trio of free agents for the Portland Thorns. The young talent who shows shades of Tobin Heath's footwork already notched seven goal contributions before the summer break.

The teeneage sensation is a fun jolt to the San Diego Wave's offense. She earned two goals in the first part of the season, helping her team to land on top of the standings.
