NWSL After Dark rarely disappoints – even on a school night. The first midweek matchups of the season did not disappoint. With 14 goals scored, some offenses were letting it rip, while others struggled to get something going.

Let’s get you up to speed on what happened Wednesday night.

Trinity Rodman made history, becoming the youngest player in NWSL history to reach 100 regular season appearances, and she celebrated that milestone with a point for her team. The Spirit were up for most of the match, thanks to a stunning sequence from Rodman to Sofia Cantore that led to Rebeca Bernal’s first NWSL goal. Despite the early lead, the Spirit couldn’t hold on to the win. Utah keeper Mia Justus, who has stepped up for the injured Mandy McGlynn, held off an aggressive Washington attack to keep the Royals in it. That was rewarded with a Mina Tanaka goal off the bench in the 84th minute to equalize. Tanaka was recently on international duty for her native Japan in the Women’s Asian Cup, where Japan ultimately defeated Australia in the Championship last weekend. The Spirit mounted a two-goal deficit against Racing Louisville last weekend, but weren’t able to recreate the magic this time around.

Next up, the Spirit head to Denver for the Summit’s home opener in front of a record-breaking crowd, while the Royals head to Foxborough to take on the other 2026 expansion team, the Boston Legacy.

The first win in Denver Summit history couldn’t have come at a better time – or against or a more formidable opponent. On the road against the reigning NWSL Championships, the Summit earned their first three points as a club, their first shutout, and scored the first and only goals Gotham FC has conceded so far. It was again Melissa Kössler at the scene of the goal, scoring her third goal in as many games for the Summit. She and Orlando’s Barbra Banda both joined a short list of players who started the regular season scoring in three consecutive games. To secure the 2-0 win for Denver, Natasha “Tash” Flint scored her first goal for the Denver Summit.

Next, Gotham hosts the Orlando Pride and the Summit head to Denver for their home opener against the Washington Spirit at Empower Field at Mile High Stadium with more than 50,000 fans expected.

The Seattle Reign handed the Kansas City Current, the reigning Shield winners, their second consecutive loss in their home opener. In her first full 90 minute performance of the season, Seattle’s Angharad James-Turner opened up scoring for the Reign in the first half. Seattle went on to score two more first-half goals thanks to Brittany Ratcliffe and Maddie Mercado. The reigning assist queen of the NWSL, Sofia Huerta, added two more to her tally for a total of 34. She leads the league in all-time assists, a record she claimed last season. The Current rested some of their typical starters for the first half, but subbed in the likes of Croix Bethunee, Debinha, Lo’eau LaBonta, and Michelle Cooper in the second half. Kansas City were unable to turn things around, thanks to Claudia Dickey’s 14th career shutout for the Reign, a new club record.

Next, the Reign host Racing Louisville in Spokane, and the Current head to Portland to take on the Thorns.

Three teams entered Matchweek 3 with back-to-back wins, and now only two remain. The Wave won their second match in a row and handed the Thorns their first loss of the season. San Diego’s Dudhina scored the fastest goal of the season so far, under two minutes in, for her second goal of the season. Pietra Tordin returned the favor and equalized in the eighth minute with her second goal of the season. She’s been involved with the first four goals of the season for the Thorns. The tie held for less than 20 minutes when rookie Lia Godfrey broke through for her second goal in as many games to give the Wave the lead. Teenage Mel Barcenas scored her third career goal to cap off the night for the Wave, hitting the classic San Diego celly of “catching a wave” on an imaginary surfboard for good measure.

The Wave will host the Stars, while the Thorns head home to host the Current.

The NWSL will be back in action on Friday night when the two last teams with perfect records go head-to-head – Angel City FC and the Houston Dash.
