The roar of the crowd. The adrenaline from the last-ditch tackles and stoppage time winners. These are the moments we soccer fans live for. In essence, these are the moments that make the beautiful game beautiful.

The roar of the crowd. The adrenaline from the last-ditch tackles and stoppage time winners. These are the moments we soccer fans live for. In essence, these are the moments that make the beautiful game beautiful.Thanks to our latest partnership with international fan engagement platform MatchWornShirt, you now have the opportunity to own the physical embodiment of those iconic sporting moments; a game used jersey, fresh from the pitch. To kick-off this partnership, jerseys worn in the 2022 NWSL Championship, presented by Budweiser, will be open for bids, straight from the first kick of the ball.

It’s more than a jersey, it’s the fabric of the game.

The jerseys being donned by the players on the pitch are so much more than pieces of cloth, they are symbolic emblems, of pride, of passion and of hope. And these jerseys worn in the final of this season’s tournament are the ultimate item. A true piece of sporting history. Each jersey will be offered to supporters unwashed to ensure it remains packed full of the passion and glory of the final. Following the game, each will be signed by the respective players to further cement the jerseys’ status as unrivalled pieces of memorabilia.

And the best bit? By placing a bid, you are supporting a great cause

All proceeds of the shirts will go towards supporting the incredible work of Leveling the Playing Field who strive to make sure that all children have the opportunity to play and enjoy sport. “We’re excited to partner with the MatchWornShirt team to provide unprecedented access to match-worn gear for our incredible fans,” said NWSL Chief Revenue Officer Mitch Poll. “The MWS program is a two-fold win in that it provides another unique opportunity to connect lovers of the game with our athletes while also benefitting the greater soccer community in meaningful ways. We look forward to rolling out the program this weekend at Audi Field.” MatchWornShirt Founder, Bob Zonderwijk, commented: “Over the past five years we’ve worked with more than 180 clubs globally and engaged with fans from every corner of the planet, and we’re pleased to be welcoming the NWSL as the latest member of our international community. “The growth of the women’s game has been really impressive and is something we’re very proud to have been a part of since the early stages of our company. To give fans the chance to get unrivalled access to their heroes at the finale of the competition is a great pleasure.”

Placing a bid is easy

Simply head to MatchWornShirt.com, select the shirt of your hero and place your bids at the push of a button.
