And… breathe! Last weekend had everything: seven-goal thrillers, hat tricks, last-gasp victories, and absolutely physics-defying goals. With so many teams finding their groove, it’s sure to be another entertaining slate of matches. Let’s take a look at what’s on tap for this weekend.

Gotham FC vs. Kansas City Current - Friday, August 14 | 8:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Utah Royals vs. Bay FC - Friday, August 14 | 10:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Seattle Reign vs. Chicago Stars - Friday, August 14 | 10:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

San Diego Wave vs, Denver Summit - Friday, August 14 | 10:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Racing Louisville vs. Boston Legacy - Saturday, August 15 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

Portland Thorns vs. Orlando Pride - Saturday, August 15 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

North Carolina Courage vs. Houston Dash - Sunday, August 16 | 7:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Angel City vs. Washington Spirit - Sunday, August 9 | 9:00 PM ET (ESPN, ESPN app)

If Washington loses and Utah wins by more than one goal, Utah will slot into second place.

If Seattle wins and Angel City loses, Seattle will bump Angel City out of the last playoff spot.

If Angel City and Seattle both lose and Denver wins, Denver will take the final playoff spot.

Why it matters: Although Gotham has the top spot locked up at the moment, any movement in the top eight teams matters. Only three points separate third place from seventh coming into Matchweek 17 and just one point separates the last playoff spot from eleventh place. Every point matters, especially over halfway through the season.

Trinity Rodman is having a stellar run of form since the summer break. She’s currently tied for third in the Golden Boot race at 9 goals, with six of those goals coming in the eight matches after the break. Out of those eight matches, Rodman has scored the game winner in five of them.

Not only is Rodman scoring, she’s coming up big consistently, and this weekend she's back in her hometown of Los Angeles where the Spirit take on Angel City on Disney Princess Night.

Pietra Tordin has been making a huge impact this season for Portland. Last match against Boston she scored a hat trick and is tied with Croix Bethune for the most assists in the league (8). She’s leading the NWSL in goals + assists total at 15. Despite 2026 only being Tordin’s second season, she’s playing far beyond her years.

After an extra-time game winner last match, the Courage are officially playoff contenders. They’ve won the past three matches, with at least one goal in each game coming past the 80 minute mark. Better yet, all three of those late goals came from different players. Needless to say, the clutch gene is coming out in Courage Country.

Gotham’s defense is on fire. They’ve kept three clean sheets straight and are currently the league shutout leaders with nine games total. Goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger leads the league with a goals against average of only .75. Even with losing crucial defender Emily Sonnett to a season-ending injury in week 14, Gotham’s defense is still holding strong.
