NEW YORK (MARCH 7, 2025) – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced a new partnership with Unwell, a platform developed by Alex Cooper to amplify the new generations of unique voices. Officially kicking off at the 2025 NWSL Challenge Cup in Orlando, the partnership will see Unwell fan activations at notable NWSL games throughout the NWSL season and will include the launch of Unwell FC, a fan hype group.

“We’re so excited to welcome Unwell to the NWSL family and partner with Alex to celebrate the game of soccer and engage with our fans in innovative and authentic ways that are transforming the future of sports fandom,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “As a former college soccer player, Alex gets the sport, the grind, and what it means to be a female athlete. Through her massive platform, she’s been a champion for women’s empowerment, and now, she’s using that influence to amplify the NWSL like never before.”

The partnership between the two brands was a natural progression for Unwell. Founded by Cooper to build on the community she created with Call Her Daddy, Unwell offers daily thought-provoking content, live events, new formats, and consumer products. Drawing on her experience as a D1 soccer player, Cooper launched Unwell Hydration earlier this year to provide effective and healthy hydration, enhanced focus, and great taste, designed to seamlessly fit into daily routines.

"As a former college soccer player and someone who has long been a fan of the NWSL, I’m so excited to be kicking off this partnership,” said Alex Cooper. “This felt like the perfect fit for Unwell as we remain committed to not only supporting our community but celebrating women who are doing incredible things. I am thrilled to have the opportunity to bring the Daddy Gang and the NWSL community together for what I know will be an incredible 2025 season.”

Unwell activations at the 2025 Challenge Cup will include a pre-game pop-up with Unwell Hydration, an exclusive ticket promotion for fans, co-branded merchandise, and appearances by Cooper throughout the game. Future initiatives in 2025 will build on the excitement and momentum around Unwell FC to enable fans to celebrate the game they love in new and exciting ways.

Fans interested in learning more, or purchasing tickets to 2025 NWSL matches can visit https://fevo-enterprise.com/event/Unwellticket2 to join Unwell FC.

About the National Women’s Soccer League

The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, BOS Nation FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver NWSL, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About The Unwell Network

The Unwell Network is a platform for this generation’s unique voices that embrace social challenges and personal insecurities through honest conversation. The Unwell Network produces experiences for the most sought-after creators and talent across pop-culture, beauty, fashion, lifestyle, and more.

About Unwell Hydration

Created in 2024, Unwell Hydration combines rapid hydration with targeted functional benefits to help you live your best unwell life – unfiltered, unapologetic and a little unhinged. Developed by Alex Cooper and The Unwell Network, the brand is ushering in a new era by promoting a wellness lifestyle that doesn't expect you to be something you're not and instead embraces everything you are. Unwell Hydration can be found at retailers nationwide. To learn more about Unwell Hydration, please visit drinkunwell.com or follow along on Instagram and TikTok.

NWSL Media Contacts:

Madelyn Flax | mflax@nwslsoccer.com

Berk Communications | Nwsl@berkcommunications.com

Unwell Media Contacts:

Katie Posocco | katie@iamunwell.com

Full Picture | Unwell@fullpic.com
