SAN DIEGO (November 11, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League in partnership with Nationwide announced today that Racing Louisville FC, led by program ambassador Jaelin Howell, and Down Syndrome of Louisville have been named the recipients of the 2023 Nationwide Community Impact Award, a season-long, community-focused initiative that promotes community partners and local service projects chosen and led by each NWSL club.

SAN DIEGO (November 11, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League in partnership with Nationwide announced today that Racing Louisville FC, led by program ambassador Jaelin Howell, and Down Syndrome of Louisville have been named the recipients of the 2023 Nationwide Community Impact Award, a season-long, community-focused initiative that promotes community partners and local service projects chosen and led by each NWSL club. <br>In addition to the award, Down Syndrome of Louisville will receive a $25,000 donation from Nationwide to support their organization’s efforts. <br>“Congratulations to Racing Louisville FC, player ambassador Jaelin Howell and Down Syndrome of Louisville on this award-winning collaboration,” said Ramon Jones, Nationwide’s EVP and Chief Marketing Officer. “Jaelin’s leadership and hands-on approach made for a truly authentic club-community partnership. Nationwide is honored to showcase their collective efforts and continue to support Down Syndrome of Louisville’s mission to provide lifelong learning services to maximize the unique abilities of individuals with Down Syndrome.” <br>As part of the league-wide initiative, each team partnered with Nationwide to select one season-long community partner. Each community organization received a donation to support its program and serve as the focus of a team-led service project, with a designated player ambassador to champion the effort. <br>“Jaelin Howell from Racing Louisville exemplifies what it means to serve her community,” said Down Syndrome of Louisville Engagement Director Carly Riggs. “At Down Syndrome of Louisville, with Jaelin leading the way, we truly feel as if we are ‘BFFs’ with Racing Lou! Jaelin and her community engagement team planned events, sponsorships, giving campaigns, and volunteer opportunities to support our members throughout the year, and our partnership is so special. We are so proud and humbled that Jaelin chose DSL, and we can’t wait to see what magic we can make in the future.” <br>Serving over 1,300 individuals in Kentucky and Southern Indiana, Down Syndrome of Louisville works to support, educate, and advocate for individuals with Down Syndrome to help them to reach their full potential. Their work includes specialized developmental and educational services for individuals with Down Syndrome across their entire lifespan. <br>A 501(c)(3) nonprofit, the organization earned a prestigious Gold Certificate of Accreditation from Down Syndrome Affiliates in Action in 2016, becoming the only Down Syndrome association in the country to receive the accreditation. To learn more about Down Syndrome of Louisville, or to donate to their cause, please visit their website https://dsoflou.org

.

<br>
