If you thought 2025 would cool off after last weekend’s Rivalry Weekend, think again. The playoff race is still wide open, with every club still in the hunt for one of eight coveted postseason spots. And that’s just the standings. The Golden Boot battle is heating up, with Temwa Chawinga and Esther González sitting level at 10 goals apiece, separated only by assists. This weekend, it’s a sure bet that one or both of them are going to be grabbing more goals.

Buckle up, you’re not going to want to miss Week 16!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Prime Video

Week 16 opens in D.C. with the Washington Spirit hosting Racing Louisville. The Spirit are slowly easing Trinity Rodman back into form after returning from injury, but the last time they were home, Rodman scored the game-winner. They’ll surely want to replicate that again for their home fans. Washington’s defense frustrated Esther González last weekend and they’ll need similar focus against a Racing Louisville side hungry for points. Last weekend, Racing’s Jordyn Bloomer became the first goalkeeper in NWSL history to save two penalties in a single regular-season match. She could be the difference-maker again this weekend if the offense isn’t firing on either end.

How to watch: NWSL+ & Paramount+

In case you missed it last weekend, the Royals finally have Cloé Lacasse, their Canadian hat trick hero from 2024, back from injury. That bodes well when they host an Angel City on Friday night, fresh off a frustrating draw. Angel City has had a recent bout of attacking woes in recent weeks but last weekend, they broke through with a clutch Alanna Kennedy goal, her first for the club, assisted by Sveindís Jónsdóttir (also her first). It’s clear Angel City has all they need to find results and they will surely be eager to keep building this weekend. When these teams met earlier this season, Christen Press and Alyssa Thompson were the difference-makers for LA, a result Utah will be looking to flip in front of their home crowd.

How to watch: CBS & Paramount+

One of the league’s most compelling new rivalries in the last two seasons kicks off Saturday at CPKC Stadium. The first-place Kansas City hosts the defending champs, the Orlando Pride, for a Rivalries presented by Ally match that fans will want to lock in for. With their last eight matches ending in victory, the Current enter this weekend chasing a single-season win streak record, and they’ll look to achieve that record with another goal-scoring masterclass from Temwa Chawinga, who leads the Golden Boot race for the second year in a row. With Chawinga in form, the return of Debinha from injury, and the recent addition of the young Ally Sentnor, the Current are the team to beat this season, which means Orlando’s defense will have their work cut out for them this weekend.

How to watch: ION

The two winningest clubs in NWSL history — the North Carolina Courage and Portland Thorns — clash again this weekend, with Portland looking to strengthen their playoff position and North Carolina eager to climb the table. The Courage return home after a tough road loss, intent on reestablishing their home-field dominance behind the creativity of Manaka Matsukubo, the steady leadership of captain Denise O’Sullivan, and Casey Murphy, who is just five saves away from 400 in her career. Portland heads into the weekend in red-hot form following a statement Cascadia Derby win, powered by standout performances from sophomore Reilyn Turner and the rookie Pietra Tordin. With talent on both sides and the perfect motivation, this matchup is definitely one you won’t want to miss.

How to watch: ION

For California fans, Northern vs. Southern California matches are always a fun time, and this weekend, there’s a matchup with plenty on the line as Bay hosts the Wave at PayPal Park. Both sides were left frustrated last weekend, conceding goals to settle for draws that left valuable points behind. For Bay, Penelope Hocking’s pre-Week 15 hot streak ( five goals and an assist in seven games) remains a threat, while Racheal Kundananji’s knack for getting behind defenses can stretch any backline. Meanwhile, San Diego will lean on Delphine Cascarino’s creativity and Kailen Sheridan’s famous goalkeeping acrobatics to grab a result that keeps them comfortably in the playoff mix against a Bay team chasing its way into the picture for a second year in a row.

How to watch: NWSL+ & Paramount+

Gotham is home again after a cagey draw last weekend against the Spirit, where they struggled to get Esther González into the game and lost Geyse to a red card. Houston, on the other side of things, had a huge win last weekend against a tough opponent thanks to some disciplined defense and a late-game winner from Sophie Schmidt (her second in a row). But maybe this time, Dash fans will hope for a more relaxing game where the goals are a little earlier. But for Gotham, the challenge will be rediscovering their attacking rhythm and turning home-field advantage into a much-needed three points.

How to watch: CBSSN

On Monday night, Week 16 wraps in Seattle, with the Reign aiming to bounce back from a 2-4 rivalry defeat that likely only added fuel to the fire that has ignited inside this team in recent months. Emeri Adames and Jess Fishlock were resilient in that game, scoring a goal a piece to leave the match with something, but the defense will need to be on top of things if they want to limit the capabilities of Chicago’s Ludmila. On the heels of announcing their head coach for the 2026 season, Chicago heads into the weekend off a gritty draw with Bay thanks to a goal from Shea Groom. Goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher, if she takes to the field this weekend, will be reaching her 200th career NWSL regular season appearance, and her calm leadership will be much needed this weekend for the Stars. This Monday night meeting could be a sneaky, high-energy closer to the week, so make sure to lock in!
