NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

SCORING SUBS

The depth of NWSL benches was on full display last weekend as at least one player scored after subbing on in all six games, including game winners from Current midfielder CeCe Kizer, Wave forward Amirah Ali and Thorns forward Sophia Smith. Ali’s goal came in the 85th minute, just one minute after checking into the game. Midfielder Ashley Sanchez also scored less than a minute after subbing in for the Washington Spirit in a 1-1 draw against the Houston Dash. Racing Louisville forward Kirsten Davis and Angel City forward Katie Johnson came off the bench to score the only two goals of the games. The Orlando Pride scored five times last week, including goals from subs Mariana Larroquette and Mikayla Cluff.

PLAYOFF PICTURE

Last week, Portland Thorns FC moved into the top of the standings with a 2-1 win over the North Carolina Courage with two points separating the top two seeds. This week, the Thorns take on the Washington Spirit who trail them by just three points and could tie them in points with a win and a Courage loss or draw. If NJ/NY Gotham FC defeats Racing Louisville FC, they would also tie the Thorns in points with a Portland loss and a North Carolina loss or draw. If the Courage lose, the Spirit and Gotham FC can tie them in points with a draw. The Courage can recapture sole possession of first place with a win and a Thorns loss. In the event of a tie between teams, the first tiebreaker is goal differential. With six games left to play, Portland’s goal differential of 14 is the best in the league, seven points ahead of the next highest differential, the Courage. Gotham FC and the Spirit have goal differentials of two and one, respectively.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

KEEP AN EYE OUT

Washington Spirit goalkeeper Aubrey Kingsbury made history in her last outing, reaching 10,000 career minutes and becoming the sixth keeper to record 400 saves in the NWSL. Kingsbury can make history again this week, as her next shutout will make her the fifth keeper ever with 30. Another top performer from last week, Kansas City Current keeper AD Franch, sits one shutout away from becoming just the third player to earn 10 for two clubs, joining Nicole Barnhart and Kailen Sheridan. Casey Murphy is also approaching a major milestone, as she is 88 minutes away from becoming the first keeper in club history to play 5,000 minutes for the Courage.

RACE TO 10

Midfielder Savannah DeMelo and forward Nadia Nadim have each scored nine goals for Racing Louisville FC, tied for the club’s all-time record. Whichever player scores next will be the first in club history with 10 goals. DeMelo has already scored five times this season, while Nadim is still looking for her first of the year. Angel City FC midfielder Savannah McCaskill is also just one goal away from becoming her club’s first player to score 10 regular season goals.

ASSISTS WATCH

Only six players in NWSL history have recorded 25 career assists in the regular season. Kansas City Current midfielder Vanessa DiBernardo and Portland Thorns midfielder/defender Crystal Dunn each have 24, while Chicago Red Stars forward Yuki Nagasato has 23, including 21 for Chicago. Nagasoto’s next assist will tie DiBernardo’s club record of 22 for the Red Stars. OL Reign’s Jess Fishlock, who has been sidelined with a leg injury for much of the season, has 24 assists and could be the NWSL’s second player to reach 25 with one club. Washington Spirit forward Trinity Rodman’s next assist will tie her with Crystal Dunn and Diana Matheson for the club record with 11. Sophia Smith is one assist away from becoming the seventh player to record 10 for the Portland Thorns.

WEEK 17 MATCH SCHEDULE

August 25, 2023

Orlando Pride vs. San Diego Wave FC | Exploria Stadium | 7 p.m. ET | Paramount+

August 26, 2023

Houston Dash vs. Kansas City Current | Shell Energy Stadium | 8:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

August 27, 2023

North Carolina Courage vs. Chicago Red Stars | WakeMed Soccer Park | 2 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Washington Spirit vs. Portland Thorns FC | Audi Field | 5 p.m. ET | Paramount+ NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Racing Louisville FC | Red Bull Arena | 5:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Angel City FC vs. OL Reign | BMO Stadium | 8 p.m. ET | Paramount+
