NEW YORK (November 8, 2024) – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced distribution platforms for international viewers ahead of the 2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel. All seven playoff matches, including the 2024 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, will be available in more than 160 countries and territories, reaching over 258 million homes around the world.

This year’s postseason offering follows a successful season of international distribution that made live NWSL matches and highlights available across key markets in Europe, Asia and Latin America.

ESPN Africa, Optus (Australia), Canal 11 (Portugal), Viaplay (Scandinavia), TNT (UK & Ireland) will exclusively feature all seven playoff matches in their respective territories. Select playoffs matches will also air exclusively on ESPN in Latin America (including Mexico, Central America, South America, Brazil and the Caribbean), on Prime Video in Canada, on Canal GOAT (Brazil) and TV Azteca (Central America).

The postseason in its entirety will also air non-exclusively on Sport Klub (Balkans), L’Equipe (France), Astro (Malaysia), ESPN Netherlands, TAP (Philippines), Saran (Turkey) and Sportsdigital (Germany, Austria, Switzerland).

Tv3 (Spain) will air a pair of quarterfinal matches in addition to the semifinal round and Championship match. Sky Italia (Italy) will also carry each semifinal match as well as the season finale.

As part of the NWSL’s landmark domestic media partnerships announced last November, ESPN in Latin America also has exclusive rights to the NWSL Championship.

A schedule of playoff matches by international platform is available below and here.

All non-exclusive matches remain available to fans tuning in outside of the United States on NWSL+. Launched at the start of the 2024 season, the free direct-to-consumer service gives fans access to live matches as well as highlights, replays and other team content online and via streaming TV distributors Apple TV, Fire TV, and Roku TV.

For more information on how to watch NWSL+, click here.

For viewers in the United States, the expanded eight-team quarterfinal round of the 2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, begins Friday, November 8, on Prime Video at 8 p.m. ET as the No. 1 seed Orlando Pride, who clinched the NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, at the beginning of the month, hosts the No. 8 seed Chicago Red Stars at Inter&Co Stadium.

The fourth-seeded Kansas City Current hosts the No. 5 seed North Carolina Courage in the lone quarterfinal match on Saturday, November 9, at CPKC Stadium, kicking off at 12 p.m. ET. The match will air live on the CBS Television Network and stream on Paramount+.

The No. 2 seed Washington Spirit opens ABC’s doubleheader coverage on Sunday, November 10, with a 12:30 p.m. ET match against No. 7 Bay FC at Audi Field in Washington, D.C.

ABC’s Sunday doubleheader coverage continues at 3 p.m. ET as No. 3 NJ/NY Gotham FC, the defending NWSL Champion, rounds out quarterfinal round action at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, New Jersey against No. 6 Portland Thorns FC.

The 2024 NWSL Championship, set for Saturday, November 23, at 8 p.m. ET at CPKC Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, will air live on CBS and streaming on Paramount+. For more information and to buy tickets for the championship match, please click here.

Endeavor’s IMG advised and negotiated deals on the league’s behalf.

2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel - International Coverage Breakdown

**For a full breakdown of regions covered by territories, please visit here.
