NWSL After Dark wasted no time getting interesting on Wednesday night. Across all four games, there were six goals in the first 15-minutes for relentless action, the second round of double espresso, and a new first place team. It’s just all gas, no brakes – even on a school night.

Jose the Coyote continued to bring good luck to the Washington Spirit, while Racing Louisville failed to capitalize on the momentum of their first win. After losing in the season opener, the Spirit are undefeated in their last six, including three straight wins. Trinity Rodman was the differencemaker, scoring in her second straight game – this time the game-winner. Rodman now has 30 regular season goals, making her the third youngest player to hit that milestone after Sophia Wilson and Sam Kerr. Spirit keeper Sandy MacIver set a new club record with four straight clean sheets, a total of 366 minutes without conceding a goal. Racing keeper Jordyn Bloomer kept Louisville in the game, making key saves including a stoppage time beauty to keep the damage minimal.

Racing Louisville will head to Gotham next to try their luck against the reigning champions, while the Washington Spirit take on the Orlando Pride in a 2024 NWSL Championship rematch.

It looked like the Boston Legacy might just get their first win after scoring two quick and impressive first-half goals, but the North Carolina Courage continued their relentlessness led by leading goal scorer Ashley Sanchez. Alba Caño scored her first NWSL goal to open up scoring just five minutes into the first half, and then just minutes later, Massachusetts native Sammy Smith scored her first NWSL goal to double Boston’s lead.

The second half, however, belonged to the Courage. Dani Weatherholt got North Carolina on the board for her first of the year, and then Ashley Sanchez did what Ashley Sanchez has done so far this season: score. Sanchez scored the equalizing goal in the 76th minute, thanks to an assist from Ryan Williams. She and Barbra Banda lead the Golden Boot race with five goals each.

Gotham got the memo about getting on board fast, and rookie Jordynn Dudley delivered with the fastest goal from the start of the game this season. Just 46 seconds into the start of the match, Dudley put one past Alyssa Naeher for the first goal of her NWSL career. Rose Lavelle doubled the lead with her second goal in as many games. After a win over the Legacy, the Stars couldn’t close the deal on any offensive attempts, and Gotham now has five clean sheets on the year.

The San Diego Wave handed the Portland Thorns their only loss of the season in Matchweek 2, but the Thorns didn’t let history repeat itself at Providence Park. German native Marie Müller scored the first goal of her NWSL career to give Portland the lead in the first half, and Olivia Moultrie earned her second assist of the season. Just days after scoring her first goal since becoming a mother, Sophia Wilson did it again – this time at home. Wilson scored her first goal at Providence Park since November 2024 to double the lead for the Thorns, thanks to the second assist from Mimi Alidou this week. For much of the game, it was an even matchup, playing more like a tennis match, but ultimately, it was Portland who broke through offensively while keeping a tight ship defensively. The fixture ends San Diego’s record five-game winning streak, as the Wave are held scoreless for the first time since the season-opening loss to the Houston Dash.
