NEW YORK (September 26, 2023) -

Each season, the National Women’s Soccer League awards the Golden Boot to the top regular season scorer. Last year, San Diego Wave FC captain Alex Morgan won the award, scoring 15 goals in the highest scoring season of her NWSL career. With three games remaining, 2022 NWSL MVP Sophia Smith sits atop this year’s Golden Boot table with 11 goals, while Washington Spirit forward Ashley Hatch, North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin, Kansas City Current midfielder Debinha, Portland Thorns FC midfielder Morgan Weaver and NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams round out the top six. Hatch and Williams are the only past Golden Boot winners in the top six, giving them the opportunity to become the second player in league history to win the award more than once after Australian Sam Kerr nabbed the title in three straight NWSL seasons (2017-2019).

NEW YORK (September 26, 2023) - Each season, the National Women’s Soccer League awards the Golden Boot to the top regular season scorer. Last year, San Diego Wave FC captain Alex Morgan won the award, scoring 15 goals in the highest scoring season of her NWSL career. With three games remaining, 2022 NWSL MVP Sophia Smith sits atop this year’s Golden Boot table with 11 goals, while Washington Spirit forward Ashley Hatch, North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin, Kansas City Current midfielder Debinha, Portland Thorns FC midfielder Morgan Weaver and NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams round out the top six. Hatch and Williams are the only past Golden Boot winners in the top six, giving them the opportunity to become the second player in league history to win the award more than once after Australian Sam Kerr nabbed the title in three straight NWSL seasons (2017-2019).

Read more about the Golden Boot leaders below:

SOPHIA SMITH (F, POR) - 11 GOALS

Sophia Smith has been among the top scorers in the league since her first full season in 2021 where she led the Shield-winning Thorns with seven goals. Smith finished second in the Golden Boot race in 2022 with 14 goals, earning the honor of Most Valuable Player and guiding the Thorns to a Championship victory, also being named Championship MVP. This season, the 23-year-old forward has scored 11 goals in 15 games, becoming just the third player in league history to record two hat tricks in one regular season. Smith also has five assists this season, trailing only her teammate Sam Coffey for the league lead.

ASHLEY HATCH (F, WAS) - 9 GOALS

Spirit forward Ashley Hatch won the Golden Boot in 2021 with 10 goals. Through 19 games played, Hatch has nine goals this season, matching her total from the 2022 regular season. She has tallied five penalty kick goals this year, one away from tying the single season record.

KEROLIN (F, NCC) - 9 GOALS

Kerolin has a decorated NWSL career in just her second season in the league, leading the North Carolina Courage to back-to-back Challenge Cup titles in 2022 and 2023, earning Challenge Cup Final MVP and being named to the NWSL’s Second XI in 2022. With nine goals scored this season, the Brazilian star looks to add a Golden Boot to her resume. Kerolin has suited up for the Courage in 16 games this season, including a 5-0 win on June 10 that featured the first NWSL hat trick for the 23-year-old.

DEBINHA (MF, KCC) - 7 GOALS

Debinha finished third in the 2022 Golden Boot race with 12 goals. This year, the 2023 Ballon d’Or nominee has tallied seven goals in her first season with the Kansas City Current, including a brace in a 2-0 win on April 30. The Current have won four of the six games in which Debinha has scored this season.

MORGAN WEAVER (MF, POR) - 7 GOALS

Through 19 games, Thorns midfielder Morgan Weaver has scored seven goals, tying a career high and her total from last season. Weaver’s four assists are also a career high and the third highest total in the league this year. The 25-year-old has scored in each of Portland’s last three matches.

LYNN WILLIAMS (F, NJNY) - 7 GOALS

Lynn Williams won the Golden Boot in her second NWSL season, scoring 11 goals for the Western New York Flash in 2016 and netting five assists. The veteran forward has seven goals in 16 games this season while also leading her club in minutes played. NJ/NY Gotham FC is unbeaten in all six games in which Williams has scored this season. The Fresno native is second on the NWSL’s all time goals leaderboard and third in assists. Note: In the event of a tie in goals scored, the first tiebreaker for the Golden Boot is assists.
