It’s a rare Monday night football game for the NWSL, when the Seattle Reign host the Chicago Stars, but with good reason. The inaugural Queen’s Match at Lumen Field will celebrate the 1985 United States Women’s National Team in honor of the 40th anniversary of its very first game.

It’ll be 40 years to the day since the very first women represented the U.S. on the international stage at “Mundialito,” a four-team soccer tournament in Italy. Though the debut was a little lackluster, losing three games and drawing another, it set the stage for the USWNT that fans know today.

Seattle is the perfect location for such a celebration due to its deep ties to the “85ers,” the nickname for the original USWNT players. Two-time World Cup Champion Michelle Akers, Lori Bylin Sweeney, Denise Bender, Sharon McMurtry Remer, Cindy Gordon, and Kathy Ridgewell – players who were part of the roster that played in Italy 40 years ago – all hail from the Seattle area.

Without these trailblazers, we may never have known the moments that are so inextricably tied to U.S. soccer today. The triumph of the 1991 World Cup win, the first in the USWNT’s history. Brandi Chastain ripping her shirt off in 1999 after converting her penalty, the photo of which graced every Wheaties box in every supermarket in the country. Carli Lloyd’s goal from center circle in 2015 that capped off a hat trick. Megan Rapinoe’s statuesque goal celebration and Alex Morgan sipping tea after scoring against England in 2019. The Triple Espresso attack that scored 10 out of 12 goals in Paris for the USWNT and powered them to an Olympic Gold Medal in 2024. And all the glorious moments in between that inspired today’s stars.

Of course, the link between the NWSL and the USWNT is strong, but the history runs far deeper than the current overlapping rosters.

From fun stats to a comprehensive list of every current and former NWSL player who capped for the USWNT, check out just how closely linked the two institutions are below.

124 of the 281 players capped by the USWNT have played for the NWSL

59 NWSL players have played in a Women’s World Cup

34 are Women’s World Cup champions

45 NWSL players are Olympians

37 are Olympic gold medalists

NWSL players have scored a total of 1156 goals

Includes players’ most recent NWSL team.

Sydney Leroux

Christen Press

Alyssa Thompson

Gisele Thompson

M.A. Vignola

Julie Ertz (retired)

Merritt Mathias (retired)

Abby Dahlkemper

Alyssa Malonson

Whitney Engen (retired)

Cat Whitehill (Reddick) (retired)

Alyssa Naeher

Sam Staab

Mallory Swanson (Pugh)

Kealia Watt (Ohai) (retired)

Leslie Osborne (retired)

Shannon Boxx (retired)

Lori Chalupny (retired)

Stephanie McCaffrey (retired)

Jane Campbell

Danielle Colaprico

Avery Patterson

Yazmeen Ryan

Ella Masar (retired)

Sarah Hagen (retired)

Christine Nairn (retired)

Lauren Holiday (Cheney) (retired)

Brittany Taylor (retired)

Amy LePeilbet (retired)

Casey Loyd (Nogueira) (retired)

Leigh Ann Brown (Robinson) (retired)

Alana Cook

Michelle Cooper

Kristen Hamilton

Claire Hutton

Lo’eau LaBonta

Hailie Mace

Izzy Rodriguez

Ally Sentnor

Allie Long (retired)

Sam Mewis (retired)

AD France (no longer in NWSL)

Casey Murphy

Ashley Sanchez

Jaedyn Shaw

Kendall Fletcher (retired)

Heather O’Reilly (retired)

Emily Fox (no longer in NWSL)

Jaelene Hinkle (Daniels) (retired)

Jill Loyden (retired)

Tierna Davidson

Jaelin Howell

Rose Lavelle

Midge Purce

Emily Sonnett

Lilly Reale

Ali Krieger (retired)

McCall Zerboni (retired)

Ashlyn Harris (retired)

Natasha Kai (retired)

Kelley O’Hara (retired)

Gina Lewandowski (retired)

Carli Lloyd (retired)

Christie Pearce (retired)

Kristie Mewis (no longer in NWSL)

Crystal Dunn (no longer in NWSL)

Jenna Nighswonger (no longer in NWSL)

Taylor Smith (no longer in NWSL)

Kerry Abello

Morgan Gautrat (Brian)

Haley McCutcheon (Hanson)

Carson Pickett

Emily Sams

Erika Tymrak (retired)

Megan Montefusco (Oyster) (retired)

Sam Coffey

Olivia Moultrie

Morgan Weaver

Sophia Wilson (Smith)

Meghan Klingenberg (retired)

Angie Kerr (Woznuk) (retired)

Rachel van Hollebeke (Buehler) (retired)

Marian Dougherty (retired)

Tinna Ellertson (Frimpong) (retired)

Sarah Huffman (retired)

Becky Sauerbrunn (retired)

Lindsey Heaps (Horan) (no longer in NWSL)

Tegan McGrady (no longer in NWSL)

Bethany Balcer

Savannah DeMelo

Taylor Flint (Kornieck)

Emma Sears

Jess McDonald (retired)

Savannah McCaskill

Naomi Girma (no longer in NWSL)

Alex Morgan (retired)

Lynn Biyendolo (Williams)

Jordyn Bugg

Claudia Dickey

Mia Fishel

Sofia Huerta

Sam Meza

Hope Solo (retired)

Megan Rapinoe (retired)

Yael Averbuch (retired)

Tobin Heath (retired)

Stephanie Cox (Lopez) (retired)

Phallon Tullis-Joyce (no longer in NWSL)

Imani Dorsey

Mandy McGlynn

Amy Rodriguez (retired)

Amber Brooks (no longer in NWSL)

Croix Bethune

Ashley Hatch

Hal Hershfelt

Aubrey Kingsbury

Casey Krueger (Short)

Tara McKeown

Trinity Rodman

Andi Sullivan

Nicole Barnhart (retired)

Lori Lindsey (retired)

Danesha Adams (retired)

Joanna Lohman (retired)

Abby Wambach
