ATTENDANCE NUMBERS

ATTENDANCE NUMBERS

The Chicago Red Stars ushered in a new era for the club under its new ownership group, headed by executive chairperson Laura Ricketts, with 8,961 fans filling the stands at SeatGeek Stadium for the team’s 2-2 draw against Angel City FC, the second largest home crowd in club history. On the east coast, 6,202 fans packed Red Bull Arena to watch NJ/NY Gotham FC defeat the Washington Spirit 2-0 on Saturday, bringing Gotham FC’s total regular season attendance above 50,000 fans, the highest mark in club history. Portland Thorns FC also felt the love from fans on Saturday night, as they defeated Cascadia rival OL Reign 2-0 in front of a sellout crowd at Providence Park, the second crowd of over 25,000 fans in club history.

COMING DOWN TO THE WIRE

With just three games remaining for each team, the playoff picture is still a tossup, as the NWSL is seeing one of its tightest races yet. With a win against San Diego Wave FC, the Kansas City Current moved from the No. 12 seed to No. 11, raising their points total to 22, marking the first time in NWSL history that every team in the league will finish the season with at least 20 points. The Chicago Red Stars dropped to the No. 12 seed this week with a 2-2 draw against Angel City FC but can still make a push for the playoffs, as they trail the No. 6 seed Washington Spirit by only five points, while the Spirit find themselves just six points behind the No. 1 seed Portland Thorns.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

WELCOME ESTHER

Gotham FC newcomer Esther González had a stellar performance in her first NWSL home game, recording a brace in five minutes with goals in the 65th and 70th minutes. González is the first Spaniard to tally a brace in the NWSL since Vero Boquete in 2014 and the second player since 2015 with a brace in one of their first two appearances in the league.

KC’S KILLING IT

Debinha got the Kansas City Current off to a quick start on Saturday, firing a rocket from 25 yards out in the third minute, perfectly placing the ball into the top corner of the net against the San Diego Wave. With the goal, her seventh of the season, the 2023 Ballon d’Or nominee has now scored against 12 different NWSL opponents in her career. Forward Kristen Hamilton scored Kansas City’s second goal of the night, making her the 30th player in league history to score 25 career goals. With her start, Current defender Kate Del Fava became the second player with 50 appearances for the club, joining Lo’eau LaBonta whose start makes her the first player in club history to start 50 games.

THE OG

With her start against Portland, OL Reign midfielder Jess Fishlock became the third player in league history to play 15,000 minutes. Fishlock, who joined the Reign in the NWSL’s inaugural season in 2013, joins teammate Lauren Barnes as the only other player to reach 15,000 minutes for one club. With her next assist, Fishlock could become the seventh player to record 25 career assists and the second to accomplish the feat with one club.

PORTLAND’S 40

The Portland Thorns defeated OL Reign 2-0 with goals from midfielder Hina Sugita and forward Morgan Weaver. Weaver’s game winner is the 40th goal scored by Portland this season, marking the fourth season in club history with 40 or more goals, a milestone no other club has achieved more than three times. The Thorns are the first team in league history to accomplish the feat in back-to-back years.

CAN’T SCORE ON CAMPBELL

Houston Dash keeper Jane Campbell had another great game, recording six saves in a 1-0 victory against Racing Louisville FC. With her seventh clean sheet of the season, Campbell sets a new single-season record for the Dash. Campbell, who has played every game for the Dash this season, has allowed just 15 goals. With three games remaining, the Dash have a chance to tie or break the record for fewest goals allowed in a season (17) set by the North Carolina Courage in 2018 and matched by the Portland Thorns in 2021. With her next shutout, Campbell will have 30 in her career, a milestone only reached by four keepers in league history.

FAST ATTACK

Forward Ally Watt struck early for the Orlando Pride, scoring just 40 seconds into their 2-1 win against the North Carolina Courage. Watt’s goal, the third scored by an NWSL player in the first minute this season, is the fastest goal in club history. With an insurance goal scored by Adriana in the 32nd minute, the Pride held onto the lead and won at home, stopping the Courage from recording their 75th win as a franchise.

WEEK 19 MATCH RESULTS

September 15, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. Houston Dash | 0 – 1 | Match Recap

September 16, 2023

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Washington Spirit | 2 – 0 | Match Recap San Diego Wave FC vs. Kansas City Current | 1 – 2 | Match Recap Portland Thorns FC vs. OL Reign | 2 – 0 | Match Recap

September 17, 2023

Chicago Red Stars vs. Angel City FC | 2 – 2 | Match Recap Orlando Pride vs. North Carolina Courage | 2 – 1 | Match Recap
