It’s Championship week, but before the big game, the NWSL celebrated the best of the best of the 2025 season. For the first time, NWSL Awards, presented by AT&T, was a full production with all the glitz and glam of any awards show.

Stars from across the league showed out, walked the blue carpet, presented by AT&T, and had themselves an afternoon in San Jose. The show was televised on ESPN2, making the end of year awards a true event.

Here are the 2025 NWSL Award winners.

MVP, presented by AT&T: Temwa Chawinga, Kansas City Current

It was another Chawinga sweep. The cornerstone of Kansas City’s historic season, Temwa Chawinga earned both MVP and Golden Boot honors – again.

In just two NWSL seasons, Chawinga has already left a mark on the league. She is the first player to score more than 15 goals in back-to-back seasons since Sam Kerr did it in 2017, 2018, and 2019. Chawinga scored 15 goals, leading a historic Kansas City offense that scored 49 goals this season.

Midfielder of the Year: Manaka Matsukubo, North Carolina Courage

Manaka Matsukubo’s breakout season was rewarded with Midfielder of the Year honors. In her third season in the league, Manaka scored 11 goals and became the youngest player to score a hat trick in league history. Her four assists helped her Courage teammates find the back of the net, too.

Defender of the Year : Tara McKeown, Washington Spirit

The new NWSL Defender of the Year is still relatively new to the position. Tara McKeown switched from forward to defender three years ago, and she’s made it look like a seamless transition. With 140 clearances, 55 interceptions, and 44 blocks on the year*,* McKeown has undeniably made it as a defender.

Goalkeeper of the Year, presented by e.l.f.: Lorena, Kansas City Current

With 14 clean sheets and a staggering 13 goals conceded in the regular season, it just had to be Lorena. The Kansas City Current had one of the best seasons on record, and that wouldn’t have been possible without the Brazilian brick wall holding down the backline.

Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally: Lilly Reale, Gotham FC

In her first professional season, Lilly Reale jumped right in and made an impact. The 2025 Rookie of the Year played in every game this season.

Coach of the Year: Beverly Yanez, Racing Louisville

Bev Yanez led Racing Louisville to their best season yet. From their first playoff berth to winning the most games in club history, Yanez led Louisville to a better year than ever before.

Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide: Sam Hiatt, Portland Thorns

Sam Hiatt was named the Lauren Holiday Impact for her work with Candlelighters for Children with Cancer. The cause is personal for Hiatt. Her brother was diagnosed with cancer in 2020, and together they chose an organization they could support to help others.

Best XI First Team, presented by Amazon Prime

GK Lorena (KC)

CB Tara McKeown (WAS)

CB Kayla Sharples (KC)

FB Izzy Rodriguez (KC)

FB Avery Patterson (HOU)

MF/FW Temwa Chawinga (KC)

MF/FW Manaka Matsukubo (NC)

MF/FW Esther González (GFC)

MF/FW Sam Coffey (POR)

MF/FW Claire Hutton (KC)

MF/FW Olivia Moultrie (POR)

Best XI Second Team, presented by Amazon Prime

GK Claudia Dickey (SEA)

CB Emily Sonnett (GFC)

CB Jordyn Bugg (SEA)

FB Lilly Reale (GFC)

FB Hailie Mace (KC)

MF/FW Delphine Cascarino (SD)

MF/FW Bia Zaneratto (KC)

MF/FW Emma Sears (LOU)

MF/FW Taylor Flint (LOU)

MF/FW Croix Bethune (WAS)

MF/FW Kenza Dali (SD)
