If you weren’t watching Olympic women’s soccer before the semifinals, you surely were this round. And what a round it was! Here’s a quick recap of all the action so you can get ready for the medal matches.

United States 1, Germany 0

A tale as old as time. The USWNT and Germany, for the fifth time in history, met in a semifinal match of a major tournament on Tuesday afternoon. Both teams had played extra time in their previous matches. And last time they met, in the group stages, the scoreline favored the USWNT. This match would prove to be more evenly matched.

After ninety minutes of game time, where the USWNT looked more threatening but were unable to beat Germany’s elite line of defense – not to mention a very capable Ann-Katrin Berger (Gotham FC) – both teams headed to the sidelines to prepare for extra time. And similarly to their previous match, the USWNT finally found the back of the net mere minutes after it started. In the 95th minute, Sophia Smith (Portland Thorns) received a through ball from Mal Swanson (Chicago Red Stars) and, evading her defender, sent it slicing low past Berger to put the U.S. up a goal.

And the rest is history. Naomi Girma (San Diego Wave), perhaps the most important player for the U.S. all tournament, and her fellow defenders kept Germany from breaking through and if they did, Alyssa Naeher (Chicago Red Stars) was there to defy gravity and logic to keep the sheet clean.

The USWNT advances now to the gold medal match, where glory awaits the winner.

Brazil 4, Spain 2

This match was decidedly less balanced. With Marta looking on from the stands, Irene Paredes' own goal gave Brazil an early lead in the sixth minute. Gabi Portilho added another just before halftime, making it 2-0.

In the 71st minute, Adriana (Orlando Pride) seized her opportunity to add more goals to Brazil’s tally, timing her dive to head the ball in.

Spain managed to score in the 85th minute, bringing the score to 3-1, but that wouldn’t be the end of it.

In extra time, Kerolin (North Carolina Courage) passed to herself and outran her Spanish defender, catching up to the ball and audaciously nutmegging the Spanish goalkeeper to put Brazil up 4-1.

Spain had one more goal in them but it wouldn’t be enough. A slightly more rested Brazil will play the United States for a chance at their first gold medal, a fitting end to Marta’s illustrious international career.
