Just like that, it’s already June, and that means one thing: Pride Month is here.

The month is a celebration of LGBTQIA+ community — the history, the ongoing fight for equality, and, of course, the love. The NWSL is a welcoming and inclusive community year-round, but Pride gets even more vibrant every June.

These moments are about more than recognition. They’re about creating spaces where fans, players, and allies feel valued and welcomed. Throughout the NWSL, clubs are fostering a culture where everyone belongs, no matter who you are or who you love.

This year is no different. Here are some ways the NWSL is celebrating Pride throughout the month.

PRIDE NIGHTS ACROSS THE NWSL

Of course, NWSL clubs will also have their own Pride celebrations. Each team will celebrate Pride during designated matches. From RuPaul Drag Race contestants singing the national anthem to gateway giveaways, there is something for everyone.

Note: While many teams will host their official Pride Nights during the month of June, others will celebrate later in the year. Regardless of timing, all teams will wear Pride-themed numbers during a designated match in June to honor and uplift the LGBTQ+ community together.

FRIDAY, JUNE 6

Racing Louisville vs. Utah Royals

SATURDAY, JUNE 7

Angel City FC vs. Chicago Stars

Bay FC vs. Portland Thorns

Gotham FC vs. Kansas City Current

Orlando Pride vs. Houston Dash

FRIDAY, JUNE 13

Houston Dash vs. San Diego Wave

Utah Royals vs. Gotham FC

SATURDAY, JUNE 14

Kansas City Current vs. Racing Louisville FC

SUNDAY, JUNE 15

Portland Thorns FC vs. Washington Spirit

SATURDAY, JUNE 21

North Carolina Courage vs. Houston Dash

FRIDAY, AUGUST 1

Seattle Reign FC vs. Angel City FC

SUNDAY, AUGUST 24

San Diego Wave vs. Racing Louisville

SUNDAY, AUGUST 31

Washington Spirit vs. Chicago Stars

More details for each club’s Pride Night can be found here.

When teams take the field, they’ll do so in Pride style, and NWSL Pride branding is getting a refresh in 2025. The palette is inspired by something simple yet symbolic – refracted light.

The Pride logo will be illuminated by a rainbow akin to prism light. The same concept will also outline player numbers for a subtle pop on the back of their jerseys.

NEW PRIDE SHIRT DESIGNED BY NWSL ALUM

It’s not just new branding to get excited about. There is also new swag.

Each club will wear a new Pride shirt pre-match designed by one of their own: former keeper Nicole Barnhart. It was just last December that Barnhart retired as a member of the Washington Spirit, but she couldn’t quite walk away from the game entirely.

When she’s not creating NWSL merch, Barnhart serves as Washington’s assistant goalkeeping coach.

The shirts Barnhart designed will be available for purchase at NWSLShop.com, and fans don’t have to feel guilty about adding a new shirt into their collection. For every club-branded Pride merchandise sold, 10% of proceeds will go to a cause of that club’s choice, and 10% of league-branded merchandise will benefit Athlete Ally, an organization dedicated to ensuring that every LGBTQIA+ person is welcome and safe in sports.

RE, a values-led sports media brand founded by Tobin Heath, Christen Press, Megan Rapinoe, and Meghan Klingenberg, also designed a custom shirt for both the league and all 14 clubs. They’ll be available for purchase on NWSLShop.com.

"We are so excited to be partnering with the NWSL to bring our Mosaic Pride t-shirts to life! Each of us is a mosaic, just as our soccer community is a mosaic too — made more beautiful by the players, teams, and fans who are the pieces in our collective work of art. It is time to show up with more strength and more joy. This year, alongside every fan, player, and team, we show up more proud than ever! From a queer-founded brand, for a queer-fueled league," Heath and Press said in a shared statement.

NWSL BEDAZZLED BALL AUCTION

Everything is better when there is a little shine. Or in this case, a lot of shine.

The NWSL Bedazzled Ball is exactly what it sounds like – a soccer ball covered all the way around in diamonds. The crystal-incrusted Nike soccer ball has more than 10,000 individually placed jewels and was created as part of a Swarovski collaboration with a women-owned company, Beyond Diamonds.

The stunning bedazzled ball made appearances through the NWSL season kickoff, but it will ultimately end up in someone’s home. The ball will be auctioned off for charity, with bidding ending on June 30.

This unique piece is the ultimate collector’s item for any NWSL fan, and the best part is proceeds will go to a great cause. Money from the auction will also benefit Athlete Ally and its mission of ensuring a safe and welcoming environment for LGBTQIA+ people in sports.

More information about the auction is to come. Subscribe to the NWSL newsletter so you don’t miss out on making your bid.
