For professional center backs, winning battles is a big part of their day job.

They are the last line of defense, willing to do whatever it takes, to shut down attacks.

They swing their heads towards goal kicks and long balls, that fall out of the sky like supersized hail. Not to mention, stepping consistently in front of a tidal wave of the fastest attackers in the world, running at them with feet so quick that you can barely decide where their feet end and the ball begins. One misstep either way and they are pulling the ball out of their own net or sending their opponent to the penalty spot.

But for Bay FC centerback Jen Beattie, one of her most significant battles to-date, happened off the field.

In October of 2020, amidst the chaos of a global pandemic, Beattie was diagnosed with Stage 1 breast cancer. The diagnosis came as a shock, especially considering there was no family history of breast cancer and she was in peak physical condition. Despite the difficult news, it was confirmed that the cancer had not spread. Following surgery, Beattie started radiotherapy treatments to address the cancer.

At the time, she was playing for English club Arsenal. Due to pandemic restrictions, her family in Scotland was unable to physically be with her. It was in that critical moment that she was reminded of the bond and powerful support of her club and teammates.

"My teammates were incredible," Beattie said, "I was diagnosed with Stage 1 breast cancer with no family history in the middle of 2020 and the COVID pandemic so I couldn’t be with my family. My teammates became my support system and let me be myself through it all."

Their commitment to Jen extended beyond the field and the training facilities. “I was lucky to have the ability to lean on those around me during the most difficult period in my life,” said Beattie. “From the coaches to the training staff to my teammates, I was given healthy meals, driven to doctor’s appointments, and given mental and emotional support. My family was also incredibly supportive from abroad and we would call, text, FaceTime, you name it and being able to feel like they were as close as possible was monumental to my mindset.”

With the guidance of her medical team, and the support of her friends and teammates, Beattie was able to play through her radiotherapy treatments, and is now cancer-free.

Beattie recognizes that she was in a unique situation, having the medical staff of a soccer club in her corner as well as a group of teammates to support her through a difficult and uncertain time of her life. She hopes that her story can help those who don’t have those same resources.

“I hope that my experience and the platform of football can help others feel supported and normalize the discussions around the challenges I and others faced,” Beattie said. “Following my diagnosis and recovery, I decided to commit to using my platform awareness and education around breast cancer and in that process, I hope that I’m able to help lead others around me through any difficult times they may be going through as well.”

Beattie’s work in supporting others with breast cancer, hasn’t stopped there. Since arriving in the Bay Area, Beattie has been working with Pink Ribbon Good, an organization that supports those going through breast and gynecological cancer treatments. She’s also participated in walk-and-talks with Pink Ribbon group members, to encourage them to stay active and healthy during their recovery and gave the keynote address at Pink Ribbon’s annual fundraising gala earlier this year.

“Being able to pass along different ways I found to stay positive and healthy amidst something that is really challenging to deal with and speaking with people to hopefully use my experience to help them in their treatment and recovery is something I’m very passionate about,” said Beattie, “I want people to know that there’s support out there – a community of people eager to help one another sharing the same experience.”

Beattie’s commitment to breast cancer awareness has been recognized with a nomination for the Lauren Holiday Impact Award. Bay FC has also partnered with Nationwide to donate $5,000 on Beattie’s behalf in recognition of the work she is doing. She’s also partnered with Bay FC Front-of-Kit and Founding Partner Sutter Health, to encourage early detection.

Her commitment to give her time, energy and support to the cause, is a testament to her character, with empathy for anyone who knows and loves someone experiencing a similar diagnosis.

“If you can support someone going through something difficult it makes a world of difference. Your presence can be invaluable in their ability to feel normal, persevere, and to navigate a situation that’s tough because we seldom have control of it. I certainly wouldn’t be where I am today without those who were around me, their support, their love, and their understanding.”

Today, Beattie has won the battle and is cancer-free. Her example and leadership on and off the field are now elevating Bay FC, who are now a single point away from securing a playoff berth ahead of their last game of the season.

“Bay FC is new and ambitious and the NWSL as a league represents a tremendous opportunity,” Beattie said. “It’s special to see what we’ve built in such a short period of time, and how we as a club have set the tone for what we want to be.”

So whether she’s anchoring the Bay FC back-line against the NWSL’s most talented attacks, or spending her time supporting and empowering others, the lesson to learn from Jen Beattie’s career rings out loudly and with unmistakable clarity:

That during our most difficult moments, supporting each other means everything. That when we commit to helping each other, making a positive difference, and solving problems together we can change people’s lives forever.
