NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

STANDINGS SHAKE UP

A full weekend of games saw the standings shake up yet again, as San Diego Wave FC moved into first place for the first time since June 11 on forward Jaedyn Shaw’s game winner, her eighth career goal. Shaw’s goal ties her with Red Stars forward Mal Swanson for the most by a teenager in the NWSL. Portland Thorns FC dropped from first to second with a 2-1 loss to Racing Louisville FC, who moved up to seventh place with the win. The North Carolina Courage and NJ/NY Gotham FC played to a draw, moving them to third and fifth place in the standings, respectively. OL Reign improved to fourth place with a 1-0 win over the Orlando Pride, who fell to ninth place with the loss. A loss to the Chicago Red Stars saw the Washington Spirit move from fifth place to sixth. With four games left to play, only four points separate first and sixth place, up from five last week. As teams make late pushes to earn a playoff spot, only seven points separate sixth and twelfth place, making for an exciting end to the season.

JOGA BONITO

North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin was involved in all three of her club’s goals in a 3-3 draw with NJ/NY Gotham FC on Saturday, recording a goal and two assists, becoming the first player with multiple assists and a goal in the same game this season. The São Paulo native assisted on the opening goal of the night, scored by midfielder Narumi Miura in the 19th minute before scoring a goal of her own in the 45th minute on an assist from forward Haley Hopkins. Kerolin returned the favor, assisting on Hopkins’ goal in the 68th minute, making Hopkins the first rookie this regular season to record a goal and an assist in the same game. Kerolin’s goal, her ninth of the season, is the 25th scored by a Brazilian this regular season. Houston Dash midfielder Andressa Alves, Kerolin’s teammate on Brazil’s Women’s National Football Team, made her NWSL debut on Sunday.

FILLED WITH FANS

Sunday’s games were packed with fans, as the Washington Spirit recorded 10,035 fans in attendance, their sixth home game this season with over 10,000. This is the 10th time in club history drawing more than 10,000 fans to Audi Field. OL Reign drew 10,106 fans to Lumen Field in Seattle, the second largest regular season crowd in club history. The San Diego Wave recorded their third largest crowd this season, as 24,936 fans packed Snapdragon Stadium.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

THORN IN YOUR SIDE

Saturday night, Racing Louisville FC defeated Portland Thorns FC for the first time ever, breaking a five-game losing streak against Portland. Racing had to fight from behind after Thorns forward Morgan Weaver scored a goal in the 6th minute. Defender Abby Erceg tied the game in the 60th minute with her second goal of the regular season, the tenth of her career. Just four minutes later, forward Thembi Kgatlana scored the first game winning goal of her career on an assist from defender Rebecca Holloway. Racing defender Lauren Milliet, who has played every minute this season, reached 5,000 career minutes played for Racing Louisville in the regular season, becoming the first player in club history to do so.

KEEPER MILESTONES

Angel City FC rookie keeper Angelina Anderson recorded her first career clean sheet, recording two saves in a 1-0 victory against the Kansas City Current. Anderson allowed just one goal in her only other NWSL game, a 2-1 Challenge Cup win against the Portland Thorns on July 29. Houston Dash keeper Jane Campbell recorded nine saves in a hard-fought 1-0 loss to the San Diego Wave, bringing her career total to 402. Campbell becomes just the seventh keeper in NWSL history with 400 career saves. In a 2-0 win against the Washington Spirit, Chicago Red Stars keeper Alyssa Naeher recorded eight saves, marking her third game with at least eight this season. Orlando Pride keeper Anna Moorhouse set a record for fastest red card in league history, picking one up in just the third minute against OL Reign. Carly Nelson played a strong game in Moorhouse’s absence, recording six saves, but a 49th minute goal from Reign forward Jordyn Huitema was enough to send the Pride home with no points.

GO GOTHAM

Gotham FC forced a 3-3 draw against the North Carolina Courage, scoring three goals in 20 minutes to erase a 2-0 deficit in the second half. The last time they scored three goals in the second half was against the Courage on October 17, 2021. Rookie midfielder Jenna Nighswonger put Gotham FC on the board in the 64th minute with her third goal of the season. The Courage extended the lead to 3-1 with a goal by Haley Hopkins in the 68th minute. Gotham FC cut back into the lead in the 74th minute with a goal from midfielder Maitane López, her first in the NWSL. Forward Midge Purce scored the tying goal in the 82nd minute to complete the comeback, scoring on forward Lynn Williams’ 27th career assist, breaking Williams’ tie with Alex Morgan and Naho Kawasumi. Only Sofia Huerta and Jess McDonald have more regular season assists than Williams all time, as both have 31. Purce’s goal, her third of the season, ties her with Kelley O’Hara for the third most in club history with 15.

WEEK 18 MATCH RESULTS

September 1, 2023

Kansas City Current vs. Angel City FC | 0 – 1 | Match Recap

September 2, 2023

North Carolina Courage vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | 3 – 3 | Match Recap Racing Louisville FC vs. Portland Thorns FC | 2 – 1 | Match Recap

September 3, 2023

Washington Spirit vs. Chicago Red Stars | 0 – 2 | Match Recap OL Reign vs. Orlando Pride | 1 – 0 | Match Recap San Diego Wave FC vs. Houston Dash | 1 – 0 | Match Recap
