A whopping 108 NWSL players were called up for duty during this short international window. While this break in NWSL is only a week long, even just a few days without a domestic game feels like too long – especially since the action is only getting more intense.

Week 10 saw 27 goals scored across the league – in only six games played! Rookies across the league are thriving, and goalies have been earning their keep with highlight-worthy saves. Those moments are worth reflecting on and celebrating.

While you might not be able to get your NWSL fix this weekend, you can relive some of the bright spots from across the league through Week 10.

Angel City FC has had a few memorable goals so far this season – the Thompson sisters linking up and Christen Press hitting the back of the net 24 seconds after subbing in, for example – but week to week, it’s a rookie standout making waves.

Riley Tiernan came into the NWSL as a force, having originally been invited as a Non-Roster Invite (NRI) before eventually earning herself a contract after a strong showing at the Coachella Valley Invitational. With six goals through Week 10, she leads all rookie scorers and is in the Golden Boot conversation alongside veterans like Barbra Banda, Esther González, and Ashley Hatch.

In a season of excellent goalkeeping, one Jordan Silkowitz moment is particularly memorable.

After San Diego’s María Sánchez picked up a penalty in the box, she lined up for a penalty kick that could give the Wave the lead. Instead, Silkowitz guessed right and dove right just in time to get a hand on the ball. The Wave ended up getting a stoppage time game-winner for a 2-1 victory, but the rare penalty kick save was an electric moment for Bay.

The starting spot has seemingly been won by Jordan Silkowitz, with starting goalkeeper Kaitlyn Rowland now retired from her professional career. She’s made 29 saves so far and has played every minute of the regular season for Bay FC as they seek to match their 2024 efforts and make the playoffs once more.

In Week 4, the Stars defeated Bay FC, 2-1. Fans would be forgiven for having a moment of deja vu for both Chicago goals.

Ludmila found the back of the net twice in the first half, assisted both times by sophomore forward Jameese Joseph. In classic Ludmila fashion, she celebrated her electric brace with a backflip. In a combo that is straight out of “Bring It On,” she of course stuck the landing. Ludmila is currently the Stars’ main attacking firepower, leading in goals and shots and tied with Joseph for shots on goal, earning herself a callup to Brazil’s May national team camp in the process.

An honorable mention goes to Alyssa Naeher earning her 50th career shutout in Week 7 against Gotham. Few people are a steadier presence than Naeher. When she is anchoring in the net, defenses can rest assured they are in good hands, something she has proven time and time again.

Gotham’s 2025 bright spot so far is not necessarily NWSL play, but it is a big one.

Gotham walked away victorious in the inaugural CONCACAF W Champions Cup, securing them a spot in more international competitions in 2026 and 2028. This means that the team that plays in New Jersey will be one of just six teams to compete in the first FIFA Women’s Championship Cup next year, competing against the winner of each confederation, including teams like Arsenal.

In the team’s May 24 win, it was who else but Esther González as the difference maker, scoring the game’s only goal. This comes on the heels of her reupping her contract, keeping her with Gotham through 2027.

In January, the Dash announced the signing of rookie Maggie Graham, a highly touted midfielder from Duke who saw 101 appearances, scored 22 goals, and was a MAC Hermann finalist in 2024. Graham is a member of the first rookie class in the post-NWSL draft era and, alongside Dash sophomore Avery Patterson, has been an incredible asset to the team. Between the two young players, they’ve scored 5 of the Dash’s 9 goals this season and are proving to be future talent to develop as the club continues their rebuild.

And after two long years, Abby Smith is back in goal.

Smith sustained an injury as a member of Gotham FC in 2023, and it was not an easy road back to NWSL action. Since August 2023, Smith has played more of a support role for her goalkeeper union but during the 2024/25 offseason, made the move to Houston. In Week 8, she made her debut for Houston and her return to the starting lineup and has featured in every game since.

Despite not seeing regular season minutes in a few seasons, Smith hasn’t missed a beat. She earned a clean sheet against the Reign, and the Dash won 1-0. It was her first win and shutout since July 2023. Then in Week 10, the Dash held a surging Bay FC to a 2-2 draw with Smith making six key saves.

There is no taste sweeter than revenge, and no one knows that more than the Kansas City Current.

After being bested by the Orlando Pride last year in the NWSL semifinals, ruining their chances of competing for the championship on their home turf, the Current came into Orlando on May 16 with a mission. In a tense and fiery match, Kansas City held on to a 1-0 lead, courtesy of a 52nd minute goal from the reigning MVP, Temwa Chawinga.

It was a big night for Lorena too, who earned her fifth shutout in her first nine NWSL appearances, tying a league record. Though a regular season win is different than a playoff boot, the competitiveness between the two teams feeds into this budding rivalry.

From Kagoshima to Cary, Manaka Matsukubo is just one of the Japanese players making a splash in the NWSL this year.

In Week 9, Matsukubo became just the third Japanese player to score a brace in the NWSL, joining Nahomi Kawasumi and Yuki Nagasato. Her second goal of the game was thanks to an assist by Shinomi Koyama, making it the first time two Japanese players combined for a goal and assist.

Maybe this is recency bias, but the first hat trick in team history is no small feat.

Leave it to the 2024 NWSL Championship MVP to make it happen. Barbra Banda’s three-goal game against the Utah Royals on May 23 was a first for the Pride. Just minutes into the game, Banda opened up the scoring, and a half an hour later, she scored two goals just a minute apart. Utter Banda dominance.

It was just the second time in league history that a hat trick was completed in the first half, and those three goals catapulted her to the front of the Golden Boot race with 7 on the season (tied with González (7) with assists serving as the tiebreaker).

There is something special happening with the Rose City amongst newcomers his year. Two of the team’s top goal scorers are first year players – Jayden Perry (3) and Caiya Hanks (2).

All three of Perry’s goals have been converted penalty kicks, making her the first rookie to convert three penalty kick attempts. Pietra Tordin became the third Portland rookie to score this season when she notched one against Houston in Week 9. Only Gotham has had more than one rookie score so far this season.

Though Reilyn Turner is in her sophomore season, she continues to be dominant, scoring three goals so far and adding more credence to the youth power of the Thorns roster.

Get you a goalie who can do it all like Mandy McGlynn.

The Royals started off the season with a 1-1 draw against Bay FC. While McGlynn held Bay to just one goal, her contributions weren’t limited to just defense. For just the fourth time in league history in all competitions, a keeper notched an assist.

With an absolutely beautiful boot kick from Utah’s half, she set up teammate Bianca St-Georges for the perfect opportunity to drive it home.

After a lightning delay in Week 7, Racing Louisville came in striking in their own way.

Louisville trailed early against Houston, and statistically, Racing has struggled to come back from behind. Thanks to goals from Kayla Fischer and Emma Sears, Louisville earned their first come from behind win in three years.

This is further proof of the hypothesis some are calling “The Emma Effect.” Sears scores prove to be good luck for the team overall. Through Week 10, Racing is undefeated when Sears gets a goal. Is it science, magic, or luck? Who’s to say, but The Emma Effect is real.

When it comes to bright spots, of course San Diego is drenched in sunlight.

One of the more impressive turnarounds from 2024 to 2025 has to be San Diego. After finishing last season in 10th place with 13 losses, the Wave now sit in second place just behind the Current going into Week 11 and are second in goals with 21 (KC leads with 22)

That is in large part thanks to the distribution of talent. There is no one foot leading the way in scoring. In fact, San Diego has a league-leading 13 different goal scorers with more than half of the regular season left to play.

Add in Alex Morgan as a recently announced minority investor and it’s been a heck of a start for the Wave.

Of all the NWSL rivalries, the Cascadia Clash is packed with history and tension and is the most common matchup in NWSL history. Neither Seattle nor Portland have much of an upper hand in all time competitions–15 wins for the Reign, 16 for the Thorns, and 10 draws across all competitions–but coming into Week 5, the Thorns had defeated the Reign on their home turf every match since 2021.

That changed on April 18 when, just minutes into the game, Maddie Dahlien scored her first professional goal, giving Seattle a one goal lead. Despite the Thorns leading in both possession and shots, the Reign held on for a thrilling 1-0 win.

An added moment of joy? Lynn Biyendolo–who has scored more goals against the Thorns than any other player in NWSL history (13)--assisted Dahlien’s goal, her first since signing with the Reign.

The Thorns still have the edge in the table, sitting at No. 5 and the Reign at No. 6, but fear not. The next installation of the Cascadia Clash comes to Rose City in August.

Spirits were high in Washington when midfielder Croix Bethune subbed in late in the second half against Gotham in Week 6. Bethune came into the NWSL and immediately was a difference maker for the Spirit – scoring five goals and notching 10 assists in just 17 games.

The 2024 Rookie of the Year earned the title despite sustaining an injury in August that sidelined her for the rest of the season.

But in the opening months of the 2025 season, there have been glimmers of hope for Bethune’s return as she increases her minutes game by game. Getting one of the most exciting young players back on the field is a win for the Spirit – and fans of the game everywhere.

It’s only one short week until NWSL action returns, but surely these won’t be the last electric, exciting, and surprising moments. If there’s one guarantee in the NWSL season, it’s that you never know what bright spot will pop up and prove to be a difference maker.
