NEW YORK (October 16, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League today named Portland Thorns FC forward Sophia Smith the recipient of the 2023 NWSL Golden Boot, finishing as the league’s top scorer in the regular season with 11 goals in 17 games. Earning her first top-scoring honor, Smith adds to a resume that already includes a 2022 MVP award and Best XI selection in just her fourth season.

NEW YORK (October 16, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League today named Portland Thorns FC forward Sophia Smith the recipient of the 2023 NWSL Golden Boot, finishing as the league’s top scorer in the regular season with 11 goals in 17 games. Earning her first top-scoring honor, Smith adds to a resume that already includes a 2022 MVP award and Best XI selection in just her fourth season.

Smith had a hot start to the year, tallying a goal and an assist in Portland’s first game of the season, a 4-0 win against the Orlando Pride on March 26. The following match, Smith recorded her first career hat trick, scoring on a penalty kick in the 18th minute and notching goals in the 83rd and 87th minute to lead Portland to a 4-0 win in Week 2. The Windsor, Colorado native embarked on a five-match scoring tear beginning in Week 10 with her fifth goal of the season in a 2-0 victory against OL Reign. After scoring once in each of her next two matches, Smith netted three goals in Week 13 in a 4-2 win over the Washington Spirit, becoming just the third player in league history to record two hat tricks in the same season. With the second goal in her hat trick performance, Smith became the youngest player to reach 30 career goals in the NWSL. Smith missed the Thorns’ next two regular season matches while playing in the FIFA Women’s World Cup, returning on August 20 and extending her scoring streak to five matches with a game winner against the North Carolina Courage. The 23-year-old forward also scored in five consecutive matches during her 2022 campaign which saw her finish second in the Golden Boot race with 14 goals, making her the second player to record two separate streaks of five or more in the regular season. She is the first Golden Boot winner for the Thorns and the second youngest winner in league history after Crystal Dunn (2015). Portland earned the No. 2 seed in the NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light, securing a first-round bye and home field advantage for the semifinals after finishing the regular season 10-7-5 with a league-leading 42 goals and +10 goal differential. Smith’s performance on the NWSL and world stage earned her a nomination for the 2023 Ballon d’Or Féminin, an international award presented to the sport’s top performer of the year. North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin finished second in the Golden Boot race with 10 goals in 19 matches, while Kansas City Current midfielder and fellow Ballon d’Or nominee Debinha finished with nine goals in 18 matches, tied with Washington Spirit forward Ashley Hatch who finished with the same total in 22 games played. Smith and No. 2-seeded Portland Thorns FC look to defend their 2022 title with a fourth NWSL Championship when they face the winner of No. 3 seed North Carolina Courage vs. No. 6 NJ/NY Gotham FC on November 5. The match will air at 7 p.m. ET on CBS Sports Network.
