The Cascadia rivalry between Seattle and Portland is as old as the NWSL itself. Every meeting adds another chapter to one of the league's fiercest rivalries. In this matchup, anything can – and usually does – happen. Here’s a quick history to get you ready for the next iteration this Sunday.

Welcome to NWSL Rivalry Week presented by Ally.

The cities of Seattle and Portland have been rivals on the pitch for decades. When the NWSL was established in 2013, it was just assumed the competition between these two cities would merely be as simple as a rivalry between two close proximity fan bases. Nobody could have guessed what it would evolve into.

In its inaugural match in 2013, the Cascadia Rivalry drew 16,479 fans to Providence Park. The league average attendance for the 2013 season was 4,271. Needless to say, the size of the crowd and the atmosphere turned heads in every corner of the world where women’s soccer was still growing.

Today, in 2026, no two teams have matched up more than Portland and Seattle. In 13 seasons over 45 games, Seattle’s won 16, Portland’s won 18, and there’s been 11 draws. The parity in this matchup is part of the reason it’s such an intense rivalry.

The players take the Cascadia Clash rivalry just as seriously (if not more) than the fans.

Seattle legend Jess Fishlock didn’t mince words discussing the rivalry in 2025.

In 2022, Portland icon Christine Sinclair announced she was going to play one more season in Portland. As she left the stage, she couldn’t help but curse her PNW rivals

The most recent iteration of the Cascadia Clash in March was an instant classic. Portland went down to ten players after midfielder Cassandra Bogere was shown two yellow cards in nine minutes. Wasting no time, the Thorns rallied and scored two goals in the first half courtesy of Pietra Tordin and Reilyn Turner. Then, in a shocking turn of events, Portland went down another player when defender Reyna Reyes was shown a straight red card in the 57th minute. Somehow Portland kept their clean sheet and got the three points.

A truly chaotic match, Seattle will definitely want to get their revenge this time. Will the Reign reign supreme? Or will Portland be a thorn in their side yet again?

Tune in this Sunday at 4 PM ET on ESPN to find out.
