As the NWSL resumes play following the international break, let's recap the standout performances of league players on the global stage over the past week.

For a full list of NWSL players on international duty: https://www.nwslsoccer.com/news/nwsl-players-on-international-duty-october-2024

Claire Emslie started for Scotland, who won their EURO 2025 match against Hungary and will proceed to the first leg of the playoff finals against Finland on November 29th. Rocky Rodríguez captained Costa Rica in their friendly against Panama, which they lost 0-2.

Alyssa Malonson earned her first cap and start in the USWNT’s friendly victory against Argentina. She also assisted one of Naomi Girma’s goals.

Natalia Kuikka started for Finland and played the full 90 in their 5-0 victory against Montenegro in their EURO 2025 qualification match. Finland will proceed to the first leg of the playoff finals against Scotland on November 29th.

Sarah Puntigam captained Austria in their second EURO 2025 qualification match of the international window, and converted two penalties in their 2-1 victory over Slovenia. Austria will proceed to the first leg of the playoff finals against Poland on November 29th. Ramona Bachmann started and converted her penalty for Switzerland in their friendly win against France.

Denise O’Sullivan started for Ireland in their EURO 2025 victory against Georgia. With the win, Ireland will proceed to the first leg of the playoff finals against Wales on November 29th.

Adriana captained and scored for Brazil in their friendly against Colombia, which they won 3-1.

Marissa Sheva started for Ireland in their EURO 2025 victory against Georgia.

Marissa Sheva started for Ireland in their EURO 2025 victory against Georgia. Naomi Girma started for the USWNT in their friendly against Argentina and made her mark with a brace—her first-ever goals for the national team.

Angharad James-Turner captained Wales and started alongside Reign teammate Jess Fishlock, who scored, in their 2-0 EURO 2025 qualification victory over Slovakia. Ireland and Wales will meet over two legs in the playoff finals starting on November 29th. Ana-Maria Crnogorčević started for Switzerland in their friendly against France and Nérilia Mondésir captained Haiti in their friendly defeat versus Russia.
