When you put Alex Morgan and Diana Taurasi on the same stage, how many goat emojis are too many?

The limit does not exist.

The GOATs of their respective sports accepted the Icon Award together at the ESPYs on July 16. In a fitting celebration of gamechangers in women’s sports, Olympic rugby player and the 2025 Breakout Athlete ESPY winner Ilona Maher introduced Morgan and Taurasi to the stage.

After gently clinking with their new hardware, Morgan took a moment to admire Taurasi’s legacy.

“Wow. Oh, I'm so excited to share this stage with you and be recognized in this incredible way,” she said. “I have loved watching you do your thing on the basketball court, winning at every level, doing it with flair and skill level that was unmatched, and on your own terms.”

Taurasi didn’t hesitate to return the praise for Morgan as an athlete and a trailblazer.

“Alex, iconic, a legend. The way you played soccer inspired me every single day. My family's from Argentina, so I always wanted to be a soccer player, and you did all the things I wanted to do,” she said. “You played with power and grace, but more importantly, the way you opened up doors for women outside of the game is legendary.”

The WNBA legend couldn’t resist throwing it back to one of Morgan’s most memorable (and meme-able) moments on the pitch from 2019.

“To be an icon, you have to have one little moment: Alex scored a goal in the World Cup against England and hit them with the teacup,” Taurasi said.

Morgan’s accomplishments on the field cannot be understated. With 123 goals and 53 assists in 224 caps for the U.S. Women’s National Team, she was a force to be reckoned with on the international stage. With her star power, Morgan helped bring the NWSL to the next level.

But her commitment to growing the game didn’t end when she hung her boots up for the last time.

From becoming a part owner of her former team, San Diego Wave FC, to co-founding TOGETHXR, a media company dedicated to women’s sports and equality, Morgan has continually walked the walk.

For both Morgan and Taurasi, though their fields of play are different, the goal is the same – be a champion for women’s sports.

“While our sports and leagues face their own challenges, our mission has always been very similar. We fought to leave our game in a better place than where we found it, just as a generation before us did,” Morgan said. “And we wouldn't be here without those women, paving the way, giving us the confidence and will to play, to fight, to advocate, to be on this stage accepting this award. We're standing on the shoulders of giants. And this is a huge tribute to them as much as to us.”

Morgan went on to say that those women pushed the limits and made it possible for athletes like them to unapologetically ask for what they deserved and to chase all of their dreams without sacrificing their craft.

In addition to this special moment, the Wave announced earlier this month they would retire Morgan’s number with a special ceremony in September. All in a day’s work for the GOAT.

You can watch Morgan and Taurasi’s acceptance in the video here.
