The final matchweek of the NWSL season before the summer break saw the end of a scoreless run for opponents at Providence Park, another Barbra Banda brace, and the San Diego Wave reclaiming the top of the table.

Orlando Pride vs. Bay FC (Pride win, 3-1)

After a lightning delay, both the Orlando Pride and Bay FC came out hot, scoring a goal each in the first seven minutes, but it would ultimately be the Pride who pulled out the win. Barbra Banda scored her third brace of the season, furthering her lead in the Golden Boot race to 11 goals.

Her first goal came just four minutes into the match with Luana earning her first NWSL assist. Bay’s Caroline Conti scored her first non-penalty kick goal three minutes later to level the match. It was Bay’s fastest goal of the season so far, but the bang-bang action of the first half died down – until the start of the second half. Banda gave the Pride the lead in the 51-minute and then assisted Cori Dyke’s first goal of the season four minutes later to secure the win.

Racing Louisville FC vs. Denver Summit (Summit win, 1-0)

Ally Brazier, the first signing in Denver Summit history, scored her first goal for her hometown club – and it was a game-winner. Yuki Yamamoto earned her first NWSL assist, and Abby Smith kept her end of the bargain with her fourth clean sheet of the season. Racing Louisville keeper Maddie Prohaska earned her first NWSL start with Jordyn Bloomer out, and the club has now dropped three-straight since beating the Portland Thorns earlier this month.

Kansas City Current vs. Boston Legacy FC (Current win, 1-0)

The Kansas City Current are now unbeaten at home in 23-straight regular-season games, a new league record ,and added to their other league record for consecutive regular season home wins to 10. Temwa Chawinga scored her seventh goal of the season, the game-winner for the Current, and is now in second in the Golden Boot race.

Portland Thorns FC vs. Utah Royals FC (2-2)

The Utah Royals put an end to the Portland Thorns’ home shutout streak at 638 consecutive minutes, a new NWSL league record. Both teams traded leads throughout the match, but the Thorns equalized in stoppage time to earn the point.

Portland’s Olivia Moultrie opened up scoring with her fifth goal of the season, and Utah’s Kiana Palacios scored just before half time, a diving header. She’s scored in two straight matches after picking up her first NWSL goal last week. The Royals doubled the lead after halftime with Cloé Lacasse’s fourth goal of the season with Mina Tanaka earning her fourth assist. It would be Portland’s Sophia Wilson who would have the final say, converting a penalty kick to equalize in stoppage time. She’s now converted her last seven PKs.

Washington Spirit vs. Seattle Reign FC (Spirit win, 2-1)

The Washington Spirit missed NWSL action in Matchweek 9 thanks to the CONCACAF W Champions Cup, but didn’t miss a beat last weekend. Leicy Santos got the Spirit’s first goal early in the first half, curling a free kick past the Seattle Reign defense. Though Seattle forced an own goal before the first half ended, the Spirit pressed on until Hal Hershelft scored the game-winner, her first goal of the year, in the 81st minute thanks to a Trinity Rodman assist.

Chicago Stars FC vs. San Diego Wave FC (Wave win, 2-0)

After Utah and Portland tied the day prior, San Diego Wave retook control of the table with a 2-0 win in Chicago. Dudinha scored her fifth goal of the season just three minutes into the match thanks to rookie Lia Godfrey’s third assist of the season and Trinity Byars scored off the bench, her third goal of the season, 14 minutes into stoppage time.

Gotham FC vs. Houston Dash (Gotham win, 1-0)

Rookie Jordynn Dudley scored for the second time in her NWSL career, the game’s only goal. It was a game-winner 18 minutes into the match that was assisted by Gotham captain Tierna Davidson for her first-ever regular season assist. Davidson has now earned her first two NWSL goal contributions in back-to-back matches. Shelby Hogan earned her first start in goal for Gotham with Ann-Katrin Berger out and kept a clean sheet.

Angel City FC vs. North Carolina Courage (Courage win, 2-1)

The North Carolina Courage made it three straight wins with yet another goal from Evelyn Ijeh. After scoring her first NWSL goal, the Swedish international has now scored in three straight matches for the Courage. Manaka Matsukubo assisted Ijeh’s last two goals and added her fifth of the season in the 79th minute, which would ultimately be the game-winner. Angel City’s Maiara Niehues scored her third goal of the year to prevent a shut out, and she’s now scored in back-to-back games. Though the Courage earned the lead back with more than 10 minutes to play in the game, Angel City didn’t relent, and keeper Kailen Sheridan saved a potential equalizer in stoppage time to preserve the win.
