Quarterfinal Preview of Kansas City Current vs. Gotham FC

Sunday, November 9 | 12:30 PM ET | ABC

Get your popcorn out for this one. When Gotham slipped down to eighth place on Decision Day, it looked like the 2023 NWSL Champions might have run out of steam. But if there’s any team built to disrupt the No. 1 seed, it might just be Gotham FC.

They’ll have to do it on the road against a Kansas City side that’s been nearly untouchable at home, a veritable juggernaut. The Current have lost just once at CPKC Stadium since its opening – a 2-1 defeat to Orlando last summer – and come into this match having only lost one of their last 18 matches. Their come-from-behind Decision Day cemented their league-best campaign, setting NWSL records for most wins (12), clean sheets (16), and points (65) in a single season.

TUNE IN: THIS SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 9 AT 12:30 PM ET ON ABC

All Kansas City needs to do is keep being Kansas City. The Current’s identity this season has been complete control – high pressing, early goals, and balance across every line. Temwa Chawinga, who just completed her second straight Golden Boot season, has been the tone-setter for the Current, scoring first in five matches. She missed last weekend due to injury but her team found an answer from other players.

If Chawinga isn’t fit to start in the Current’s quarterfinal match, the Current will rely on Debinha, who knows a thing or two about playing in the playoffs. With four career playoff goals to her name (second-most in NWSL history) and her chemistry with Bia Zaneratto – another goal-scoring machine – Gotham will have their hands full no matter who is on the field.

They’ve also found consistency in their supporting cast. Izzy Rodriguez has quietly become one of the league’s best creators from wide areas, tied for the NWSL lead with six assists and leading Kansas City in successful crosses and corners since Vanessa DiBernardo went on maternity leave. Her service into the box gives the Current another layer of danger that few teams can match.

Overall, if captain Lo’eau LaBonta continues her perfect record from the penalty spot (if it’s needed) and Lorena continues to run the backline like she has been all year – breaking the single-season shutout record with 14 – Kansas City can ride their momentum straight into the semifinals. They’ve led at halftime 14 times this season, so getting out in front early will be key to taking one step closer to the double.

All that Gotham needs to do is rediscover the edge that made them champions in 2023 and powered their 2024 season to the semifinals. Gotham enters the postseason winless in their last four matches but context matters – Esther González missed Decision Day due to injury and she remains their most clinical finisher with 13 goals, the second-best in the NWSL this season. Her return will free up Rose Lavelle, who’s been on fire with seven goal contributions in her last nine games and a goal in three of her last four playoff appearances. Lavelle’s creativity and her willingness to be on the ball and draw her unwitting opponents in will be critical against KC’s midfield.

Emily Sonnett, already the NWSL’s all-time playoff minutes leader, anchors a back line that will need to absorb pressure and if she takes to the field, keep Chawinga from making her famous breakaway runs. Gotham’s path to the upset depends on some stingy defense but if that fails, it will be up to the goalkeeping exploits of Ann-Katrin Berger, who posted 10 clean sheets this season. And if it comes down to penalties to decide who advances, Berger has been known to be calm under pressure.

A FIRST POSTSEASON MEETING

This is the first-ever playoff meeting between these two clubs, but don’t call it a rivalry. Kansas City has never lost to Gotham in their last 11 matches in all competitions. A win on Sunday would be a huge upset but this is the same Gotham (give or take a player or two) who defied all odds in 2023 and as the No. 6 seed, ascended to the Championship and lifted the trophy.

But the Current are chasing their first NWSL title after a record-breaking campaign. Despite claiming the NWSL Shield, the cherry on top would be the ultimate title.

One side is trying to create a legacy and the other, add to it. Don’t miss all the action – this Sunday, November 9 at 12:30 PM ET on ABC.

Check out the 2025 NWSL Playoffs Hub.
