As we enter Week 21 of the NWSL season, the race for playoff positioning is coming down to the wire. Four teams have clinched spots - Orlando Pride, Washington Spirit, NJ/NY Gotham FC and Kansas City Current. The Orlando Pride is the only team to have secured a top-four seed and a home quarterfinal match, but three more teams have the opportunity to lock in their place this weekend. The race is on, and every point counts.

Washington Spirit can clinch a top-4 seed and a quarterfinal home match with:

A win AND a North Carolina draw OR loss OR

A draw AND a North Carolina loss

Angel City FC vs. Washington Spirit - Friday, September 27th at 10:00 pm ET

NJ/NY Gotham FC secures a top-4 seed and a quarterfinal home match with

A win AND North Carolina draws OR loses

Kansas City Current also has a chance to clinch a top-4 seed and a quarterfinal home match with:

A win AND a North Carolina loss

Kansas City Current vs. Gotham FC - Saturday, September 28th at 1:00 pm ET

Four playoff spots remain, and while there are no clinching scenarios this weekend there are matchups that can go a long way toward seeding and positioning, with Kansas City (currently 4) hosting NJ/NY Gotham FC (3) and a match up between North Carolina (5) and Chicago (6).

Only one team is at risk of elimination this weekend: the Utah Royals will be knocked out of playoff contention if they suffer a loss.

As the regular season approaches its final stretch, the NWSL Shield race continues, and we're officially down to just four teams vying for the top honor: Orlando Pride, Washington Spirit, Gotham FC, and the Kansas City Current. While the Shield is still up for grabs and does not have a chance of being claimed this week, there are two critical scenarios that have major implications. If the following occurs, Orlando will have the chance to secure the NWSL Shield on October 6 at home against the Washington Spirit:

Orlando Pride win vs Houston Dash on September 28

Gotham FC draw or loss at Kansas City on September 28

Orlando Pride vs. Houston Dash - Saturday, September 28th at 7:30 pm ET
