The NWSL returns after a few weeks off for the international break where a record 130 players were called up to represent their countries – and 27 found the back of the net. As we head into Matchweek 5, the competition is only going to get more fierce from here ahead of the impending summer break. Here’s all of the fun you can expect from one of the most compelling NWSL seasons so far.

How to watch: Victory+

Racing Louisville is still in search of their first win of the season, but a quick retool during the break and a return home might be what they needed. Orlando has never won in Louisville but if they carry on their Matchweek 4 form, where they defeated a tough Angel CIty with a dramatic, late-game brace courtesy of Haley McCutcheon, this might finally be the magic visit. Louisville, meanwhile, was part of the wildest match of the season in Matchweek 4 against Houston, a seven-goal barn burner that showed their resilience but also their defensive shortcomings. This is going to be an intriguing matchup, the perfect way to start the weekend.

How to watch: CBS & Paramount+

Gotham hosts an East Coast vs. West Coast showdown against Bay FC on Saturday afternoon, and in four home games this season so far, it may very well see their first home goal of 2026. Their road game has also been rocky. After falling behind early in Kansas City in Matchweek 4, Gotham equalized through Jaedyn Shaw, but couldn’t hold on and conceded to the Current in the second half. Norwegian forward Guro Reiten couldn’t come at a better time for the defending champs, who need to find more goals if they have any hope of defending their title. Bay FC, meanwhile, enters with a different kind of urgency after being shut out for the first time this season in a 2-0 loss to Washington. Despite that setback, Bay has all the pieces they need to find success – a strong midfield with the addition of Claire Hutton and some veteran and youth energy on the frontline with Cristiana Girelli and Alex Pfeiffer – and if their 3-1 victory over the Courage in North Carolina is any indication, they have no reservations against scoring on the road. It’s anyone’s game, and the perfect brunch-time entertainment for any sports fan.

How to watch: Prime Video

One of the marquee matchups of the weekend, the Spirit have new-found confidence after securing their first win of the season in Matchweek 4. The Spirit’s attack has been hit or miss this season but against Bay FC, they showed they still have what it takes to get points. Many of their players are returning from strong showings with their national teams and they’ll look to build on that against a Kansas City side that loves a late-game comeback.

And another storyline to watch: this is the first time Kansas City’s Croix Bethune faces off against her former team. Bethune and the Current were busy during the break, playing two friendlies against international clubs, and in their last match, 2025 NWSL MVP Temwa Chawinga returned from SEI and assisted a goal. It’s the makings of a strong return for the reigning Shield Winners against a formidable opponent.+

How to watch: ION

Boston Legacy are still searching for a win in their inaugural season, and with just one goal in club history, they have a long way to go before consistent results. But in the NWSL, any team can be victorious in any game, and with some tightened defensive formations, they might find it this weekend.

The Chicago Stars, meanwhile, have shown moments of brilliance this season, most notably in their home opener where they defeated Kansas City 2-1. But since then, they’ve looked shaky and in Matchweek 4, made a huge change in goal where Katie Atkinson made her club debut in place of long-time starter Alyssa Naeher. Boston’s hunger to prove themselves could make them dangerous but the more experienced Stars could find another victory to add to their pockets.

How to watch: NWSL+

Houston is one of the hottest teams in the league right now, riding a historic home unbeaten streak and coming off a deserved four-goal victory in Week 4. Their attack is clicking and their defense is solid, both fueled in large part by their rookies who have stepped up, including Leah Klenke, who has played every available minute this season. North Carolina, however, remains one of the league’s most balanced sides, capable of scoring in bursts as seen in their four-goal outing against Portland, while also getting their players back to defend the goal. With Ashley Sanchez and Manaka Matsukubo proving to be one of the deadliest midfield duos in the league and Houston looking impressive on all fronts, this matchup could be anyone’s game.

How to watch: ION

Denver returns home for their second-ever home match after a record-breaking crowd saw a scoreless draw in their inaugural game versus the Spirit. The Summit have already shown defensive solidity, with Abby Smith leading the league in saves, but they’ll be looking to convert that into a statement performance in front of their fans. And one thing is for sure: Melissa Kössler has been clinical for Denver this season, scoring their first three goals in club history. More players will need to get in on the attack if they want to have a successful first season.

San Diego, on the other hand, has quietly become one of the league’s most efficient teams and it shows in the standings. The Wave sit at the top of the table. With Dudinha and Ludmila as an elite goal scoring Brazilian duo, Lia Godfrey having an incredible rookie season, and Leah Freeman with back-to-back clean sheets, the Wave are really checking all the boxes. They’ll be a tough opponent for the expansion side but if the fans show up like they did in the last game, homefield advantage may be the difference maker.

How to watch: ESPN2 & ESPN App

Angel City saw their perfect start to the season come to an end in heartbreaking fashion in Week 4, conceding twice in the final minutes of the game against Orlando. The response will be key, especially against a Portland side that continues to show its attacking depth and experience, so expect late-game goals from either side.

The Thorns are one of the most dangerous teams in the league, with an uncanny ability to generate offense from multiple sources — including Olivia Moultrie and their dynamic midfield. Angel City will need to manage the full 90 minutes – and multiple goal-scoring threats – to avoid another late heartbreak.

How to watch: Victory+

Seattle Reign are back at Lumen Field for the first time this season, ready to play in front of the Reign faithful after an impressive start to the season. Their last match may have ended in a draw but if this team is going to do one thing it’s rise to the occasion and this may be the ultimate occasion. Jess Fishlock recently announced she’s retiring at the end of the season. We can’t think of a better time than getting an OG more hardware before she goes out.

Utah, meanwhile, continues to find ways to score, and will test Seattle’s defense with players like Mina Tanaka and Tatumn Milazzo. Expect a competitive, high-energy atmosphere as both sides look to make a statement and close out the weekend with a bang.
