No. 14 Racing Louisville upset the No. 1 Portland Thorns with a 3-1 win.

Kansas City Current star Temwa Chawinga scored her first hat trick – and the first regular season hat trick in club history – to give the Current the win.

San Diego Wave’s Dudinha scored the 200th goal by a Brazilian in league history.

There was just one midweek match to tease the weekend’s slate, and the Utah Royals made club history several times over with the win over the Houston Dash. Thanks to Cloé Lacasse’s third goal in three games and Utah native Courtney Brown’s first for the Royals, the club remained unbeaten in their last six. With 17 matches straight with at least one goal and 378 consecutive minutes without conceding, this Utah Royals team isn’t messing around. While the Houston Dash started the season off strong, they were held scoreless in three straight matches going into the weekend.

In their second win of the season, Racing Louisville FC put the Portland Thorns on notice, handing the No. 1 team just their second loss of the season. Though Sophia Wilson scored her third goal of the season, thanks to an Olivia Moultrie assist, it wouldn’t be enough to secure the win as Racing Louisville answered back with three unanswered goals. Katie O’Kane scored her first career brace, which included the first goal scored on a free kick this season. There was enough sauce on the O’Kane’s shot to be featured No. 6 on Sportscenter’s Top 10. Emma Sears solidified the Racing win with her second goal of the year.

Golden Boot leader Barbra Banda is simply inevitable. Despite strong defensive showings on both sides, it was ultimately Banda who broke through in the final moments of the game with her eighth goal in eight games to give the Pride a much-needed win after dropping back-to-back matches. Courage keeper Kailen Sheridan made several key saves to keep her team in the match, but the North Carolina offense, led by second place contender in the Golden Boot race, Ashley Sanchez, weren’t able to get anything going. It’s the second-straight match the Courage have lost by a single goal margin.

After a decisive win for Gotham over the Legacy in the season opener, it was less clear cut this time around with the teams from New York/New Jersey and Boston splitting points. It wasn’t enough for Jaedyn Shaw to stun on her way into the match; she had to combine fashion and finesse. Shaw scored the first goal of the game and her third of the year, making her the second youngest player to reach 20 regular season goals scored. Gotham’s lead lasted just three minutes before Boston Legacy’s Alba Caño scored her second goal of the year to equalize.

It was a SoCal showdown for the Rivalry Match presented by Ally, and the San Diego Wave rolled out of Los Angeles with the W. Both teams wanted these points, as Angel City FC have slid from No. 1 to No. 11. Dudinha opened up scoring early in the second half with her third of the season, making history along the way. It was the 200th goal scored by a Brazilian in NWSL history. Just five minutes later, however, Angel City FC would level the match with Emily Sams earning her first goal since joining the club. Defender and captain Sarah Gorden earned the assist – her first ever in the NWSL. It was rookie Mimi Van Zanten who would be the differencemaker, scoring her first pro goal to win the game for the Wave. With the goal, Mimi and Kiki Van Zanten (Houston Dash) are the fifth pair of sisters to both score in the NWSL. Dudinha earned the assist on the goal for her third game of the year with two goal contributions. Though the loss at home wasn’t the way Angel City hoped the day would go, Claire Emslie made her return from maternity leave – on Mother’s Day.

After the Wednesday night wash against the Utah Royals, the Houston Dash were hoping to bounce back at home. The Denver Summit had other plans. Just over 10 years after scoring her first career goal as a member of the Houston Dash, Janine Sonis got her first two goals as a member of the Summit, earning a brace against her former team. Yazmeen Ryan assisted both for her third straight game with a scoring contribution. Tash Flint continued her tear, extending her scoring streak to three matches, and Delanie Sheehan scored her first goal with the Summit. Ayo Oke earned the assist, her first of the year. For the Dash, it was Maggie Graham who got Houston on the board, converting a PK for her second goal of the year. Two bright spots for Houston came in the form of milestones. Keeper Jane Campbell made her 200th regular season appearance, and Danielle Colaprico started her 200th regular season match.

Scoring with Temwa Chawinga happens like falling asleep – slowly, and then all at once. Or something like that. After a long six weeks in the NWSL without a Chawinga goal, the Kansas City Current star more than made up for lost time, scoring her first hat trick – and the first regular season hat trick in club history. Chawinga even earned a tip of the cap from Current owner and Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes. Michelle Cooper earned assists on two of the three, while Croix Bethune also got a contribution. The match was a far cry from the clubs’ first meeting of the season, where the Stars walked away with a 2-1 win. While it was a third straight shutout loss for the Stars, Chicago pulled it together after Chawinga’s first goal of the game, keeping the Current contained to just one first-half goal, but it escalated quickly with two goals in two minutes to start the second half. It was the first shutout win of the season for the Current.

Not all scoreless draws are made equal, and this matchup between Bay FC and the Utah Royals was a duel. Utah extended their shutout streak to 468 minutes, a club record, but the club’s scoring streak ended at 17 straight matches. The draw does extend Utah’s unbeaten streak to a new club record of seven straight matches. For Bay FC’s part, they have maintained clean sheets in their last two matches but have only scored one goal in their last four.

The final match of the weekend looked to be another defensive battle until Claudia Martínez scored off the bench in the 84th minute of the match for her third of the year. Gabrielle Carle earned her first assist of the season, and the Washington Spirit rolled on to their fifth straight win and eighth straight undefeated match. José the Coyote continues to bring luck.
