Savannah DeMelo wasn’t on the field when Racing Louisville and Seattle Reign finished the second half of their match on September 16, but she was on everyone’s mind – and wrist.

After collapsing on the field Sunday night, DeMelo was rushed to a local hospital, where she remained alert and stable. The game was abandoned at halftime, and when both teams returned to the pitch, they did so with purple wristbands for DeMelo.

With SD7 written on the wristbands, a little piece of DeMelo was with her teammates.

The 45-minutes of action ended with a 1-0 Seattle win thanks to last-minute heroics from Jess Fishlock, but the fact that DeMelo is safe makes for a more important win.

In a statement before the game, DeMelo said she was grateful for the love she’d received from the NWSL community and beyond.

“I’m lucky to have my family with me while I’m waiting for test results to come back. I’m extremely thankful for the quick response,” DeMelo said. “They’ve been with me every step of the way. The support from everyone has truly meant the world to me, and I’m excited to cheer on the girls this week.”

Racing head coach Bev Yanez echoed that sentiment.

“We are so grateful for the outpouring of support for Savannah. This has been an incredibly difficult time for our players and staff, who all care deeply for her, and it’s meaningful to know the entire NWSL community is behind Sav as she recovers,” Yanez said in a statement. “I’m especially thankful to the medical personnel who acted quickly to ensure her safety on Sunday night, as well as to the Seattle Reign and the NWSL for their support. It has truly meant the world to us. We will continue to support Savannah and her family in any way we can.”

Louisville are back in action again against Utah on Friday, September 19 at 10 PM ET. You can watch the match on NWSL+ and Paramount+.

Authenticity and adaptability: Coaching lessons learned by Racing’s Bev Yanez while playing under Reign legend Laura Harvey

Week 21 Preview: Who is Snatching the NWSL Shield?

Who let Jordyn Bloomer have fun? Louisville’s keeper is embracing the pressure of new starting role
