Week 15 in the NWSL was a showcase of just how tight and competitive the NWSL is, with nearly half the matches ending in draws and margins razor-thin across the board. But fans saw stars return from international duty and injury, club debuts, and a milestone strike from Kansas City’s Temwa Chawinga – her 30th career goal – keeping her firmly in the hunt for a back-to-back Golden Boot. Here’s what you might have missed!

To kick off Week 15, Houston overcame North Carolina in dramatic fashion. The Courage had struck first in the 32nd minute when a VAR review turned a free kick into a penalty, converted by Riley Jackson. Kiki Van Zanten quickly equalized for Houston before halftime, her second goal of the season. Then, Sophie Schmidt was the late-game hero for the second straight match by scoring the winner in the 95th minute off a cutback from Yazmeen Ryan. With the victory, Houston has now gotten points from two matches in a row and goes back out on the road next weekend with extra confidence.

The league leaders headed to Utah for a Friday night finale and came away with three points, and they did it with a player Utah fans might recognize. The first half was scoreless between the two, with Utah looking dangerous and confident. In the second half, Ally Sentnor made her debut, one week after her trade from the Royals to the Current was announced. Another player made a special appearance too: Cloé Lacasse, Canadian forward for Utah, returned to the field after leaving it with an ACL injury last fall. She almost had a goal, a deflected header that skimmed the crossbar, but it wasn’t meant to be. Then, in Temwa fashion, Chawinga’s 82nd-minute lob sealed Kansas City’s eighth straight win and kept them atop the table. It puts her at the top of the Golden Boot race with her 10th of the season and in 40 games, makes her the fastest player in NWSL history to reach 30 career goals.

Aubrey Kingsbury’s 42nd career shutout and a shorthanded Gotham defense defined a gritty scoreless draw in the first Rivalry Weekend presented by Ally match of the weekend. Gotham played over 60 minutes with 10 players after Geyse was sent off in the 30th minute, but goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger’s big saves and a late goal-line clearance preserved the point. Despite the lack of goals, plenty still happened. Washington’s Rosemonde Kouassi and Gift Monday each came close in the first half, with Kouassi also hitting the post, and Ballon d’Or nominee Sofia Cantore made her league debut in the second half, the first Italian in league history. The two East Coast rivals had to settle for a draw and look to find points to stay in the playoff race next weekend.

In the second draw of the day, Orlando hosted the team that beat them before the summer break and came away with a point. Marisa DiGrande put Louisville ahead in first-half stoppage time, and Orlando eventually leveled in the dying moments via an Ary Borges own goal. However, the real magic on the pitch was made by goalkeeper Jordyn Bloomer, who delivered a historic performance between the posts, first stopping a penalty kick by Julie Doyle before the break and then Angelina in the 85th minute. She’s the first goalkeeper in NWSL history to save two penalty kicks in one regular season game.

Just like it did last time these two teams played in the regular season, the second Rivalry Match presented by Ally game of the day between the league’s two Southern California clubs ended in a draw. Despite a strong performance from Angel City rookie Evelyn Shores, who kept French sensation Delphine Cascarino locked down all match, San Diego broke through in the 85th minute when Makenzy Robbe buried a rebound for her first career NWSL goal. But in true SoCal Derby/NWSL After Dark fashion, Angel City responded in stoppage time, with Sveindís Jónsdóttir delivering her first league assist to Alanna Kennedy at the far post for her first club goal. Alyssa Thompson was active throughout for ACFC, forcing multiple Sheridan saves, while Cascarino and Adriana Leon threatened for the Wave.

In the first match of the day, Bay FC and the Chicago Stars both came away with a point after a tightly contested battle in Chicago. Bay FC rookie Taylor Huff scored her second goal in two games, pouncing on a deflected corner in the 29th minute to give the visitors the lead. Chicago answered before halftime through Shea Groom, and the second half saw both sides push for a winner in hot conditions. Goalkeepers Alyssa Naeher and Jordan Silkowitz each came up with key stops, while Bay marked career milestones for Rachel Hill (150th appearance), Penelope Hocking (50th), and Catherine Paulson, who made her league debut. Chicago and USWNT forward Mal Swanson, out on maternity leave, was also in attendance.

The match everyone was waiting for all weekend didn’t disappoint. In the final Rivalry Weekend presented by Ally match, Portland overcame their Cascadia neighbors despite initially allowing an early goal from Emeri Adames. Sam Coffey equalized from the penalty spot, Reilyn Turner put the Thorns ahead soon after, and Reyna Reyes extended the lead with a header early in the second half. After Jess Fishlock pulled one back for Seattle, rookie Pietra Tordin struck moments later to seal the win. The Thorns did so in front of an NWSL season-high crowd of 21,811 and broke the all-time series deadlock, where both sides were tied with 16 wins ahead of the game.
