It’s a little more than halfway through the NWSL season, and while teams adjust for playoff runs, there are some star players who have been consistent bright spots week to week.

The monthly Best XI presented by Amazon Prime celebrates the performances of NWSL players in each position, and it should come as no surprise that there have been a number of repeat recipients.

Below are the players who have appeared on the NWSL Best XI presented by Amazon Prime most frequently.

BARBRA BANDA

With eight goals on the season, Orlando's Barbra Banda sits third in the Golden Boot race, but she’s earned Best XI honors three times already this season. The 2024 NWSL Championship MVP picked up where she left off in 2024. After scoring three goals for Zambia in the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations tournament during the summer break, expect Banda to continue her scoring ways in the back half of the season.

TEMWA CHAWINGA

There is no slowing down for Temwa Chawinga. She is on pace to be the fastest NWSL player to score 30 regular season goals, needing just one more to hit the milestone. With nine goals already this season, Chawinga is second in the Golden Boot race and has been a difference maker for Kansas City since her arrival last year.

JORDYN BUGG

The center back for a stingy Seattle defense is a crucial role, and Jordyn Bugg hasn’t faltered. She’s played all but four minutes in 2025, earning Best XI honors twice so far this season. On top of her defending prowess, Bugg has also scored two goals for good measure. Did we mention she’s only 18? Fans won’t want to bet against Bugg.

SAM COFFEY

The Queen of Kit Tucks has already been named to the Best XI twice this season. With a goal and three assists for the Thorns, Coffey has played every minute of every game but one and is an invaluable member of the club thanks to her consistency and leadership.

KENZA DALI

In her first NWSL season, Kenza Dali hasn’t balked. She’s clocked two goals and two assists, playing all but four minutes since regular season kicked off. Dali and her ability to adapt to a new team and league paired with her consistency are part of the reason San Diego surprised so many in the first half of the season.

DEBINHA

Given Debinha was out with an injury starting in mid-May, the fact she earned two Best XI honors already speaks volumes to how she was performing in the opening weeks of the season. With five goals and an assist, Debinha was yet another unstoppable force for a cutthroat Kansas City offense. She returned to play against Louisville in Week 14, and as her minutes increase week to week, it wouldn’t be a surprise to see her creep back up to her early season form.

ESTHER GONZÁLEZ

The best of the Best XI honors wouldn’t be complete without the reigning Golden Boot race leader. With 10 goals already, Esther González is leading her Gotham teammates in scoring by a whopping eight goals. She has been a consistent threat for defenses across the league – and based on her performance in the UEFA 2025 Euro, the world. With four goals in the summer tournament, González shows no signs of slowing down in the second half of the NWSL season.

LO’EAU LABONTA

The Celly Queen herself has had plenty of reason to celebrate this season, earning Best XI honors twice so far. With three goals and an assist, the KC Baby captain has played every minute this season. As much as LaBonta contributes on the field, she is just as invaluable in the locker room as a veteran leader.

LORENA

Lots has been said about the Current’s attack, but opposing offenses face a formidable opponent with Lorena in net. In her first year in the NWSL, Lorena hasn’t skipped a beat, earning Best XI honors twice. She’s conceded just 10 goals on the year and has earned a league-leading six clean sheets. As she returns from a championship saving performance in Copa América Feminina, don’t expect Lorena to have a second half slump.

MANAKA MATSUKUBO

In her first two NWSL seasons, Manaka Matsukubo scored just three goals. With four goals and four assists in 2025, she’s more than doubled her career total in just half a season. Something is clicking in Cary, and it’s landed her one the Best XI list twice so far. With a streak of five games straight with scoring contributions earlier this season, once Matsukubo gets warmed up, she’s proven to be a consistent force.

RYAN WILLIAMS

Finally, North Carolina’s Ryan Williams rounds out the best of the Best XI in the first half of the season. After earning her first career goal – a special moment celebrated by her teammates earlier this season – Williams more than earned a call out. Williams is a veteran defender whose steady presence has led a strong Courage defense.
