Jess Fishlock has played for the Seattle Reign every season since the NWSL’s inception, but the 2026 season will be her last. Fishlock announced on Tuesday she would be retiring at the end of the season.

An NWSL “OG,” Fishlock is part of the NWSL’s DNA as the only field player to appear in all 14 seasons for one club.Fishlock played 219 regular season games for the Seattle Reign, starting 205 and winning 102. She’s scored 49 regular season goals, earned 30 regular season assists, and won three NWSL Shields (2014, 2015, 2022).

“She sets the standard with her work ethic, her competitiveness and her love for the game, but it’s also her football brain that sets her apart,” Seattle Reign head coach Laura Harvey said. She sees things others don’t, and that understanding of the game has been invaluable to this team for so many years. She has carried this club on her shoulders at times and has always done it with pride. Her impact on this team, this city and sport as a whole is immeasurable.

No one is safe with Fishlock in the lineup. She’s scored against all but two teams in the league at least once. The exceptions being the Denver Summit and Boston Legacy – both 2026 expansion teams.

Her dominance isn’t just limited to club play, either. For her native Wales, Fishlock scored 48 goals in 166 caps – both Wales national team records. Just last summer, she rewrote history again for Wales, captaining the team’s first major competition at the UEFA Women's Euro and scoring the team’s first major tournament goal.

At the end of the 2025 season, Fishlock extended her contract with the Reign through the end of the season despite announcing her retirement from international competition. Earlier this year, she joined the Welsh national team coaching staff as a technical assistant.

All great things must come to an end, but Fishlock’s impact will be felt long after she’s gone.

Fishlock and the Reign return to Seattle and Lumen Field to host the Utah Royals on Sunday, April 26 at 8 p.m. Tune in on Victory+.
