Trinity Byars delivers a four-goal contribution performance, Ashley Sanchez moves atop the Golden Boot race, and Angelina Anderson comes up clutch from the spot. Here are some of the top storylines from Matchweek 18.

San Diego Wave 4-2 Utah Royals

Kansas City Current 1-1 Seattle Reign

North Carolina Courage 2-1 Boston Legacy

Portland Thorns 1-0 Denver Summit

Chicago Stars 3-2 Racing Louisville

Washington Spirit 0-1 Orlando Pride

Bay FC 1-0 Houston Dash

Angel City FC 0-0 Gotham FC​

Lo'eau LaBonta became the 10th player in NWSL history to reach 200 regular-season appearances as Kansas City extended its unbeaten run with a 1-1 draw against Seattle. Debinha converted from the spot for the Current, while Lorena made her return in goal.

Sophia Wilson scored the 54th regular-season goal of her career to lift Portland to a 1-0 win over Denver in front of the Thorns' largest crowd of the season.

Chicago Stars earned a long-awaited return to the win column with a 3-2 victory over Racing Louisville. Mallory Swanson recorded a goal and an assist, Jameese Joseph found the back of the net while Louisville's Arin Wright made her 200th regular-season start.

Haley McCutcheon struck early for Orlando, and the Pride made it stand as the game-winner in a 1-0 victory over Washington. The Spirit were the only home team to lose during Matchweek 18.

Cristiana Girelli scored her first NWSL goal to deliver a late winner for Bay FC, becoming the oldest international player to score her first NWSL goal.

Angel City goalkeeper Angelina Anderson saved a penalty and kept a clean sheet against Gotham, while Ann-Katrin Berger recorded a shutout at the other end.

Two goals. Two assists. Four San Diego goals. One Trinity Byars.

The Wave forward was everywhere in San Diego's 4-2 win over Utah, playing a part in every goal to deliver one of the standout individual performances of the season. Byars started off the night after sprinting half the field before firing home a pass from Melanie Barcenas. She then added another goal and then turned provider twice, including Barcenas’ goal.

There's a new name atop the Golden Boot race.

Even with all of the WAFCON players back, including previous Golden Boot leader Barbra Banda, Ashley Sanchez scored both of North Carolina's goals in the Courage's 2-1 win over Boston, pushing herself into sole possession of the league lead.

One of the game's most iconic players was celebrated in Providence Park, the place where so much of her legendary career was written.

Tobin Heath returned to Providence Park for a special retirement ceremony, signing a one-day contract with the Portland Thorns to officially retire as a member of the club. A two-time NWSL champion with Portland and one of the most creative players the league has seen, Heath was celebrated by the Providence Park crowd as she closed the book on her playing career, forever a Thorn.
