NEW YORK (February 19, 2026) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced a landmark multi-year sponsorship with CVS Pharmacy, the retail division of CVS Health, as an Official Health and Wellness Partner of the NWSL.

“This sponsorship reflects the NWSL’s continued growth and our belief that the professional women’s game is a powerful catalyst for impact far beyond the pitch,” said NWSL SVP of Partnerships Matt Soloff. “Together with CVS and our clubs, we’re translating that growth into real investment in healthier communities and expanding access and opportunity for the next generation of players and fans.”

Through this extensive agreement, CVS Pharmacy will serve as the entitlement partner of NWSL Youth Clinics, a new community-focused initiative centered around participation, wellness and keeping girls in the game. These clinics will pair on-field play with broader wellness engagement for athletes and families, reinforcing a holistic approach to youth sport and long-term participation.

CVS will also support the NWSL Combine and Youth Combine, an event designed to showcase some of the best talents across the country in the U13-U17 age group and elite college players.

“Supporting everyday wellbeing is at the core of who we are at CVS—whether it’s through providing trusted access to care or creating opportunities for our communities to move, grow, and connect,” said Erin Condon, Chief Marketing Officer, Pharmacy and Consumer Wellness. “We are excited to partner with the National Women’s Soccer League, as they align with our commitment to expanding access to health and wellness programs that uplift women and girls both on and off the field.”

Expanding upon their long-term support of women’s soccer, including a current sponsorship of the Washington Spirit, CVS will also sponsor Seattle Reign FC and the Kansas City Current to help extend health resources and community impact to additional league markets.

As part of the sponsorship, CVS will also receive virtual signage across all NWSL matches and will collaborate with the league on a new social content series designed to translate health expertise into practical guidance for fans, families and young athletes. The series will spotlight everyday health and wellness tips, garnering tips from various experts from across both organizations.

About the NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, NWSL Atlanta, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About CVS Health

CVS Health (NYSE: CVS) is a leading health solutions company building a world of health around every consumer, wherever they are. As of December 31, 2025, the Company had approximately 9,000 retail pharmacy locations, more than 1,000 walk-in and primary care medical clinics and a leading pharmacy benefits manager with approximately 87 million plan members. The Company also serves an estimated more than 37 million people through traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including highly rated Medicare Advantage offerings and a leading standalone Medicare Part D prescription drug plan. The Company’s integrated model uses personalized, technology driven services to connect people to simply better health, increasing access to quality care, delivering better outcomes, and lowering overall costs.
