Temwa Chawinga scores her 40th career regular-season goal.

Kimmi Ascanio wins it late for San Diego Wave vs. the Washington Spirit, putting them in first place.

Gotham defender Tierna Davidson puts away her first regular-season goal since 2019.

Denver Summit FC win their first home game in club history on Pride Night

Boston Legacy FC 2, Orlando Pride 1

Boston Legacy continued their magic on Brazilian Heritage Night at Gillette Stadium, rallying past Orlando in dramatic fashion for their second comeback win of the season. The Pride struck first when Marta converted a penalty kick, making history with her league-record 15th regular-season PK goal. But Boston responded through rookie Aleigh Gambone, whose first-ever NWSL goal pulled the hosts level. Then, deep into stoppage time, Boston’s own Brazilian, Amanda Gutierres, delivered the storybook finish, burying her first NWSL goal from the penalty spot to seal a memorable comeback victory.

Kansas City Current 3, Houston Dash 0

The Current continued their red hot streak with a commanding 3-0 win at home against the Houston Dash, extending their home unbeaten streak to 21 games, dating back to 2024. Fresh off of scoring a hat trick last weekend, Temwa Chawinga scored a brace, her 40th career regular season goal. She’s the fastest to reach the milestone in NWSL history, having done it in 53 games, with the next fastest being Sophia Wilson in 63 games. The loss, meanwhile, is Houston’s fourth in a row, and with their next match on Wednesday, it’s a quick turnaround to implement lessons learned.

Bay FC 1, Boston Legacy FC 1

Bay FC and Boston Legacy FC played to a 1-1 draw on Friday evening in the first matchup between the two clubs, despite Legacy going down a player early in the match after a first-half red card. Bay FC opened the scoring with a goal from Dorian Bailey, her second of the season, but the home side didn’t hold on to the lead for very long. Ten minutes later, a foul in the box led to a penalty kick which Amanda Gutierres handily converted. Bay is now unbeaten in three while Boston are unbeaten in their last five matches. Also in attendance were the Bay Area’s WNBA team, the Golden State Valkyries.

San Diego Wave FC 2, Washington Spirit 1

José the coyote’s luck ran out as the San Diego Wave beat the Washington Spirit 2-1, ending their eight-match undefeated streak. Washington fans still have something to celebrate: midfielder Andi Sullivan reached 10,000 minutes played. Trinity Byars scored her first career goal just six minutes into her first career start. The Spirit answered back, with Rebeca Bernal getting her second goal of the season. Kimmi Ascanio scored a late game-winner to seal the deal for the Wave. With this second consecutive late win, the Wave ended the weekend in first place.

Seattle Reign 0, Gotham FC 2

Gotham FC stayed rolling behind familiar stars heading into the weekend with two unanswered goals coming from some fan favorites. Jaedyn Shaw continued her red-hot form, scoring in her third straight match, while captain Tierna Davidson found the back of the net for her second Gotham goal and just the second regular-season goal of her NWSL career (her first was in 2019 for the then-Chicago Red Stars). It marked Davidson’s first regular season goal since the 2024 NWSL Playoffs after the defender missed most of last season through injury. In goal, Ann-Katrin Berger recorded her league-leading seventh shutout of the season as Gotham secured another clean-sheet victory before heading to Mexico for their W Champions Cup matchup on Wednesday.

North Carolina Courage 4, Chicago Stars FC 0

After three tough matches that saw the Courage dropping points, they finally found their stride this weekend with a strong 4-0 showing against the visiting Chicago Stars. Two players found the back of the net for their first Courage goals: Ally Schlegel, who scored against her former club, and Evelyn Ijeh, who recorded her first NWSL goal and assist in a breakout performance. Ashley Sanchez continued her standout season with a goal and assist – her sixth goal of the year – while Manaka Matsukubo added her fourth goal of the season and an assist of her own. On the other side, a special moment arrived as Mallory Swanson made her long-awaited return from maternity leave, stepping onto the pitch for the first time since 2024.

Denver Summit FC 3, Orlando Pride 1

Denver Summit earned the first home win in club history behind a game-winning brace from Colorado native Janine Sonis, who has now scored braces in back-to-back matches, and a goal from Eva Gaetino. It was Gaetino’s first NWSL goal, with the assist coming from Yazmeen Ryan. For the other side, Barbra Banda kept her Golden Boot charge going with her ninth goal of the season, set up by Haley McCutcheon, but it wasn’t enough to overcome a strong backline from the Summit. The win came on Denver’s Pride Night, with a rainbow appearing over the stadium and beloved queer retired NWSL stars Christen Press and Tobin Heath in attendance as special guests.

Portland Thorns FC 0, Angel City FC 0

It was a hard fought battle between the Portland Thorns and Angel City at Providence Park, but the scoreline ended in a draw. The Thorns haven’t conceded at Providence Park since last season, going 504 minutes without letting in any goals at home. If they keep the nets clear for another 64 minutes, they’ll break the record set by the Western New York Flash in 2013. And for the visitors, defender Nealy Martin reached 100 regular season appearances.

Utah Royals FC 2, Racing Louisville FC 1

The Royals are officially on a roll and are now unbeaten in eight straight games since losing the first two matches of the season. In the first half of their match against Racing, their persistence forced an own goal, but in the second half, Louisville’s Kayla Fischer scored the equalizer, her second goal of the year. Less than ten minutes later, however, Utah’s Mina Tanaka scored the game-winner, her third goal of the season. With this win, the Utah Royals have now won six matches this year, as many as they won in the entire 2025 season.
