Another Wednesday is in the books as fans were treated to two mid-week matches, neither of which disappointed those hoping for some chaos. Here’s a recap of what you might have missed!

NJ/NY Gotham FC 2, San Diego Wave FC 1

Headed into the match at Red Bull Arena, Gotham FC seemed to have the better situation: momentum from four consecutive wins plus a squad bolstered by Ella Stevens' good form. That momentum would serve to be the difference-maker. In the final minutes of the first half, Rose Lavelle broke the deadlock when she collected the ball near the half and dribbled all the way to goal where her shot sent the ball careening past Wave goalkeeper Kailen Sheridan.

The Wave pulled one back early in the second half courtesy of Mya Jones. The low ball she slipped past Gotham goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger marked her first professional goal but would ultimately be the Wave’s last of the evening. Appearing to settle for a tie, their staunch defensive efforts were for naught as Gotham rookie Maycee Bell took advantage of an error in front of the box, using the outside of her boot to score her own first professional goal in the final seconds before the whistle. Gotham FC now sits at five consecutive wins headed into the weekend.

Angel City FC 3, Racing Louisville FC 2

Drama unfolded in Los Angeles as a barnburner of a match took place between Racing Louisville FC and Angel City FC, two teams in desperate need of points to contend for a coveted playoff spot. Kennedy Fuller, Angel City’s 17 year-old midfielder, opened the scoring up in the 17th minute after she diverted a pass from Madison Curry past Racing goalkeeper Katie Lund. In the 32nd minute, Rocky Rodriguez scored her first goal for her new club and doubled Angel City’s lead. However, before the first half ended, Racing capitalized on a foul in the box, sending Taylor Flint to the spot for an expertly executed penalty kick,

In the second half, Racing showed their true potential in deploying an organized press when Savannah DeMelo backheeled a ball to Emma Sears, whose cross found Carson Pickett unmarked and deep in the box. Pickett settled and sent a shot in, tying things up and quieting BMO Stadium’s crowd. But as always is the case when it’s NWSL After Dark, the drama wasn’t over and in the 85th minute, Alyssa Thompson’s pinpoint through ball found forward Sydney Leroux on the break, giving her the speed needed to beat her defenders and find the back of the net just outside of Lund’s reach. The crowd jumped to their feet, reenergized, and never seemed to settle as the final minutes played out, declaring the home team the winners. Angel City FC could potentially break into the top eight in the standings after this weekend as they head north to the Bay Area to face expansion team Bay FC.
