As the 2024 FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup kicks off later this month in the Dominican Republic, the U.S. U-17 Women’s Youth National Team will feature two historic milestones—its first-ever roster to include professional NWSL players and its first to be coached by a former NWSL player. Four standout young talents from the league will take the field for the USA, bringing experience and skill that could make a significant impact on the global stage.

Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller, San Diego Wave FC duo Melanie Barcenas and Kimmi Ascanio, and Seattle Reign FC’s Ainsley McCammon will be leading the way for the red, white, and blue, highlighting the ever-growing opportunities for talent development in the league. Their inclusion marks a new era for the U-17 WYNT, which has traditionally been dominated by youth club and high school players.

Fuller, the youngest player to sign an NWSL contract at the start of the season, has quickly made her mark with Angel City, logging 18 appearances and 1 goal in her debut campaign. Ascanio, meanwhile, has been a late spark for San Diego Wave FC, breaking into the NWSL lineup 6 times. Barcenas, a San Diego native and the first NWSL player to go pro before turning 16 netted her first career goal recently. McCammon, who recently made her professional debut with Seattle Reign FC, rounds out the group as another rising star with a high ceiling.

Leading these young professionals is a former NWSL player herself—head coach Katie Schoepfer. Schoepfer is the first former NWSL player to coach a U.S. U-17 World Cup team, and only the second overall to coach at this level, following Rhian Wilkinson’s tenure with Canada’s U-17s in 2018.

Schoepfer’s coaching career is built on the foundation of her four seasons playing with the Boston Breakers from 2013 to 2016. Making 68 NWSL appearances and tallying seven goals, Schoepfer’s legacy in the league was cemented by her role as a leader on and off the pitch during the NWSL’s formative years. She now brings that experience to a talented group looking to make its mark on the world stage.

The U.S. U-17s are set to battle reigning champions Spain in their opening match on October 16.
