How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

For details on specific matches and where to watch in these territories, click here.

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. San Diego Wave - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBS Sports Network

The SoCal Clásico never disappoints and as the only match of the evening, NWSL fans across the world will be tuning in as the two Southern California teams face off for the first time in 2024. Both teams experienced defeat last weekend and will be desperate to make up for the loss in standings this Thursday evening. Keep an eye out for Wave forward Kyra Carusa, who scored the Wave’s lone goal last weekend. On the other side of the field, Sydney Leroux has been in incredible form and will be looking to replicate her performance last weekend against her club’s southern neighbors.

The eight all-time meetings between Angel City and San Diego have been split evenly, with each side winning three times and drawing twice. Who will take the lead?

Friday, May 24

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. Portland Thorns FC - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

There are numerous reasons to tune in to this match in particular: for starters, the Pride and Thorns have been two of the most exciting squads this season and a match up between the two is sure to be an exciting one. Additionally, both clubs are on win streaks – the Thorns are at six consecutive wins and Pride at seven – and if the match ends with a winner, it would mean the end of one club’s victory run. The league table is sure to see a lot of movement this weekend, and this match should be on the radar of any soccer fans who don’t have any Friday evening plans.

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs. Seattle Reign FC - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

In a rematch of Seattle’s 1-0 season home opener victory, Reign FC and the Washington Spirit are set to face off again but this time, in Washington DC. Since their last encounter, the Spirit have scored in nine consecutive games, sitting third in the league for total team goals. The Reign will have their hands full this Friday evening and without their leading goal scorer Bethany Balcer, who is out on red card suspension, someone else will need to step up to ensure the Spirit are more focused on defending. Keep an eye out for Spirit’s rookie midfielder Croix Bethune, who is making a case for a Rookie of the Year award.

Matchup: Houston Dash vs. North Carolina Courage - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Houston Dash goalkeeper Jane Campbell is poised for another stellar season, currently on track for an Iron Woman campaign. With 54 saves, she leads the league in total saves. She’ll have her work cut out for her Friday evening as the Dash host the Courage, who lead the league in passes, proving to be a team that gives their opponents problems and dominates possession. Keep an eye out for new Dash acquisition, the Brazilian defender Tarciane, who Dash head coach Fran Alonso has teased will make an appearance in this match.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime Video

For the first time ever, one of the league’s newest clubs, Bay FC, will face the defending champions, Gotham FC. It's a classic West Coast versus East Coast showdown, and with both clubs coming off victories from last weekend, the match is wide open. Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams will be a key player to watch. With her 79th career goal last weekend, the Northern California native set a new league record and will aim to continue her scoring spree in San Jose, just a few hours from her hometown of Fresno. Meanwhile, Bay FC's Racheal Kundananji, will be eager to find the back of the net again as her team strives to defend their home turf and climb the league standings.

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Racing Louisville FC - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

Chicago came close to earning points last weekend against league champions Gotham FC in New Jersey but their focus turns to hosting Racing Louisville at home. Racing Louisville is coming off a thrilling 3-3 draw at Kansas City and continues their road trip. With the taste of defeat still fresh, the Red Stars will be motivated to not only score more but keep their backline fortified, especially against a team like Racing that is known for set piece goals. Watch out for Racing forward Emma Sears, who has had an impressive rookie season so far.

Matchup: Utah Royals FC vs. Kansas City Current - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

End your weekend by watching Utah Royals FC host an unbeaten Kansas City Current. After a frustrating draw last weekend, the Current will be eager to claim victory in Utah this Sunday to reaffirm their dominance in the league standings. Meanwhile, the Royals FC, a brand new expansion team whose main goal this season is to build chemistry amongst their young roster, will aim to cause some NWSL After Dark chaos. They not only seek to earn crucial points but also aspire to end the Current’s impressive unbeaten streak. Keep an eye on Current midfielder/celly queen Lo’eau LaBonta, who always has a new celebration up her sleeve if she scores.
