NEW YORK (August 31, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of August by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

NEW YORK (August 31, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of August by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

Six teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including three selections from the Kansas City Current and Orlando Pride, two players from Portland Thorns FC and one each from the Chicago Red Stars, NJ/NY Gotham FC and San Diego Wave FC.

GK – AD Franch (KCC): Franch enjoyed a stellar month in net, recording six saves and allowing just one goal while recording two shutouts, including the Kansas City Current’s 3-0 win over Racing Louisville FC to clinch a spot in the 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup semifinals.

D – Abby Dahlkemper (SD): After returning from a back injury at the end of July, Dahlkemper scored her first regular season goal since 2016 in the San Diego Wave’s 2-1 win over the Orlando Pride.

D – Casey Krueger (CHI): Krueger played all 90 minutes in each of the Chicago Red Stars’ three matches this month and recorded the first three-assist game in Challenge Cup history, as well as the first three-assist performance by a Red Stars player across all competitions.

D – Jenna Nighswonger (NJNY): Nighswonger displayed her versatility as a playmaker and defender, recording 16 won tackles and 115 successful passes in four matches for NJ/NY Gotham FC.

D – Kylie Strom (ORL): Strom’s defensive impact was on display in the Orlando Pride’s four matches in August, recording 26 possessions won, including 12 in Orlando’s final Challenge Cup match against Gotham FC.

MF – Kerry Abello (ORL): Abello recorded the second assist of her career in the Pride’s final Challenge Cup match against Gotham FC and recorded 27 won possessions and 67 completed passes across four matches.

MF – Sam Coffey (POR): Appearing in every minute of play in August, Coffey completed 119 of her 148 passes (80 percent) across three matches for Portland Thorns FC in August, recording a league-leading seventh assist in a draw against the Washington Spirit.

MF – Lo’eau LaBonta (KCC): LaBonta completed 108 of her 134 passes (81 percent) across three matches for the Kansas City Current and scored her first goal of the season in a draw against the Houston Dash.

F – Messiah Bright (ORL): Bright scored three goals across four games in August, finding the back of the net in Orlando’s final Challenge Cup match against Gotham FC and recording a brace in the Pride’s return to regular season action in a 5-0 win over Chicago.

F – Kristen Hamilton (KCC): Hamilton recorded a brace in Kansas City’s final Challenge Cup match to earn her club a spot in the semifinals, bringing her total to a league-leading five Challenge Cup goals this season. Hamilton tied Current teammate Debinha for the most Challenge Cup goals all time (12).

F – Morgan Weaver (POR): Weaver ended the month with strong performances in back-to-back matches for the Portland Thorns, recording an assist on Sophia Smith’s game-winning goal against the Courage in Week 16, followed by a goal in Portland’s Week 17 draw against the Spirit.

Mastercard and the NWSL launched the Best XI of the Month awards platform with the First Team and Second Team honors for the 22 top players of the league after the 2021 season. Mastercard believes that our world is full of brilliant possibilities and unlocking the potential in every person across all parts of their life is what Priceless is all about. The development of the Best XI is a further commitment from the company to connect NWSL fans to the league and the athletes they love.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.
