See below for a roundup of notes from Week 5 of NWSL regular season action.

See below for a roundup of notes from Week 5 of NWSL regular season action.

GOALIE GOAL

A high-scoring frenzy at Providence Park ended in dramatic fashion last Saturday when Portland Thorns FC goalkeeper Bella Bixby back-heeled an equalizer past Angel City FC keeper Didi Haracic in the sixth minute of stoppage time to keep the Thorns’ regular season unbeaten streak alive with a 3-3 draw. The goal marks just the second time in league history that a goalkeeper has scored for their team. On June 20, 2015, keeper Michelle Betos provided heroics for her then-Portland Thorns squad late in stoppage time, scoring a header goal to tie the game against opponent FC Kansas City.

FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH

In the 71st minute of San Diego Wave FC’s Saturday match against the Orlando Pride, Wave FC forward Melanie Barcenas became the youngest player to enter an NWSL match at just shy of 15-and-a-half years old. Barcenas was acquired by the Wave through the league’s U-18 Entry Mechanism, and signed her first NWSL contract on March 21, becoming the youngest player to do so. Barcenas is one of a trio of youngsters in the NWSL, including 17-year-old Thorns midfielder Olivia Moultrie and 15-year-old Washington Spirit midfielder Chloe Ricketts, the second-youngest player to sign a league contract.

FIND YOUR BEACH

The Orlando Pride snapped a four-match losing skid Saturday at Snapdragon Stadium, overcoming a 1-0 deficit to take down San Diego Wave FC, 3-1, in their first win of the year. Spreading the scoring wealth across the young team, three players found the back of the net for the first time this season, including Brazilian international Adriana, and second-year midfielder Mikayla Cluff. With Orlando’s victory, 11 of the league’s 12 teams have notched wins through Week 5 of the regular season. Only Racing Louisville (0-1-4) are still on the hunt for their first regular season win of the 2023 campaign.

WELCOME BACK JULIE

Angel City midfielder Julie Ertz reopened her NWSL scoring account in her squad’s 3-3 draw against Portland on Saturday, fittingly solidifying her return to the league with a header goal to give the LA-based expansion side a 3-2 edge over the Thorns. The goal marked her first tally since September of 2017. The last time Ertz scored in the NWSL, there were 10 teams in the league, the U.S. Women’s National team had three stars on their jerseys rather than four, and only four NWSL Championship matches had been staged.

HISTORY MADE

Saturday’s 2-2 draw between OL Reign and Racing Louisville FC marked the NWSL’s 1000th regular season match. Among the players who featured in the milestone match are three members of an exclusive club of athletes who have competed in the NWSL every year since its inaugural campaign in 2013, including defender Lauren Barnes, midfielder Jess Fishlock and forward Megan Rapinoe. The match also showcased the league’s next generation of starpower, including second-year stars Savannah DeMelo and Jaelin Howell, and goalkeeper Phallon Tullis-Joyce, who made her NWSL debut in 2021.

WEEK 5 MATCH RESULTS

April 28, 2023

Houston Dash vs. North Carolina Courage | Shell Energy Stadium | 0-1

April 29, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. OL Reign | Lynn Family Stadium | 2-2 Chicago Red Stars vs. Washington Spirit | SeatGeek Stadium | 1-1 San Diego Wave FC vs. Orlando Pride | Snapdragon Stadium | 1-3 Portland Thorns FC vs. Angel City FC | Providence Park | 3-3

April 30, 2023

Kansas City Current vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | Children’s Mercy Park | 2-0
