NEW YORK (January 19, 2024) –

The National Women’s Soccer League is proud to open its historic 12th campaign on Friday, March 15 as 2023 NWSL Champion NJ/NY Gotham FC takes on San Diego Wave FC, winner of the 2023 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, in the newly reformatted 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup, featuring a single-match showdown between the league’s most accomplished stars from the previous season. The match, to be hosted by Gotham FC at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, New Jersey, kicks off at 8 p.m. ET, streaming live on Prime Video.

NEW YORK (January 19, 2024) – The National Women’s Soccer League is proud to open its historic 12th campaign on Friday, March 15 as 2023 NWSL Champion NJ/NY Gotham FC takes on San Diego Wave FC, winner of the 2023 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, in the newly reformatted 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup, featuring a single-match showdown between the league’s most accomplished stars from the previous season. The match, to be hosted by Gotham FC at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, New Jersey, kicks off at 8 p.m. ET, streaming live on Prime Video.

Now in its fifth year as part of the league’s competition framework, the NWSL Challenge Cup will serve as the league’s official return to the pitch ahead of the highly anticipated 2024 regular season, highlighted by the additions of expansion sides Bay FC and Utah Royals FC and the beginning of the league’s landmark domestic media distribution deals.

“There is no more compelling way to open a new season than with a match featuring the league’s most exceptional athletes who are a true testament to the caliber of athleticism, skill and excellence the NWSL proudly embodies,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “Showcasing both the reigning champions and Shield winners, the Challenge Cup is a fitting launchpad for the world’s premier women’s professional league to kick off what is sure to be the most exciting season of matches yet.”

In addition, the NWSL Challenge Cup marks the start of Prime Video’s coverage of the NWSL as part of historic media rights agreements announced last season. More information regarding Prime Video’s coverage of the NWSL, including the platform’s match schedule and talent lineup, will be released in the coming weeks.

Details regarding the full 2024 NWSL regular season schedule are forthcoming.
