The 2025 NWSL season wasted no time delivering drama, debut moments, and statement performances. From league newcomers making an instant impact to title contenders setting the tone, kickoff weekend had no shortage of storylines. With the first round of matches in the books, here are the top five takeaways from an electric opening weekend.

No surprise here—Orlando Pride’s championship-winning core is back, and they look just as dominant in 2025 as they did in 2024. To kick off the new season, the Pride made a statement with a resounding 6-0 win over the Chicago Stars on Friday night. Goals from Haley McCutcheon, Ally Watt, Julie Doyle, and a brace from Barbra Banda—plus a Chicago own goal—secured the victory and etched Orlando into the record books for the largest margin of victory and highest-scoring season opener in NWSL history.

Another milestone on Friday night—one that happens just once in a lifetime. The NWSL welcomed its 1,000th player as Duke rookie Maggie Graham stepped onto the field for Houston in the 60th minute. Just 15 minutes later, the 2024 MAC Hermann finalist found the back of the net, becoming only the fourth player in Dash history to score in their debut. Moments later in Orlando, history continued as the Chicago Stars subbed on midfielder Justina Gaynor, officially marking the 1,001st player in league history.

Three-time NWSL Iron Woman Sam Staab saw her remarkable streak of consecutive starts come to an end last season due to injury, sidelining her for 233 days. Despite the setback, she still holds the league record for most consecutive starts in NWSL history. On Friday night, she made her long-awaited return in Chicago Stars' away match against Orlando Pride, a moment celebrated by players and fans across the league who have supported her since her rookie year in 2019. A rock-solid and reliable defender, Staab’s comeback is a major boost for Chicago’s backline.

One of the final draft classes in NWSL history is already proving its impact. With the college draft era now over, the league’s future now rests in the hands of rising stars—and 2023’s top two picks wasted no time making their mark. No. 1 overall selection Alyssa Thompson and No. 2 pick Michelle Cooper both found the back of the net during Kickoff Weekend, with Thompson supplying the tie goal in the 69th minute in Angel City's home opener and Cooper shooting a Sportscenter-worthy golazo from distance. As rookies and young players step onto the field, they aren’t just participating—they’re shaping the future of the league.

NWSL fans are lucky—some of the best talent from around the world plays here, and this weekend was a prime example. International stars, both new and familiar, made their mark on the scoresheet. 2024 NWSL Championship MVP Barbra Banda from Zambia bagged a brace on Friday night, Mexico captain Rebeca Bernal debuted for the Washington Spirit, Malawian Temwa Chawinga netted Kansas City Current’s first goal of the season, Brazilian international Gabi Portilho struck for Gotham, and Germany’s Gia Corley put San Diego Wave on the board early in their SoCal derby in Los Angeles.

With an action-packed opening weekend in the books, even more drama in Week 2 is on the horizon. Can early standouts keep their momentum? Will new signings continue to shine? And which teams will make the biggest statement as the season heats up? The next chapter of the 2025 NWSL season is just getting started.

Portland Thorns vs. Angel City FC - 10 pm ET - Prime Video

North Carolina Courage vs. Seattle Reign - 7 pm ET - NWSL+

Washington Spirit vs. Kansas City Current - 7:30 pm ET - ION

San Diego Wave FC vs. Utah Royals FC - 10 pm ET - NWSL+

Bay FC vs. Racing Louisville FC \- 10 pm ET - ION

Chicago Stars FC vs. Houston Dash - 7 pm ET - NWSL+, Paramount+

Gotham FC vs. Orlando Pride - 5 pm ET - ESPN2, ESPN+
