NEW YORK (August 7, 2026) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of July by the NWSL Media Association. Headlined by Player of the Month Trinity Rodman, 6 teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including four from league leaders Gotham FC.

GK - Sandy MacIver (WAS): Earned five wins in the month, allowing less than a goal a game.

DEF - Guro Reiten (GFC): Had two assists and created 11 chances from left back in July.

DEF - Tara Rudd (WAS): Anchored a back line that allowed just three goals all month.

DEF - Kate Del Fava (UTA): Crucial part of a Utah defense that allowed just two goals in their last four games of the month.

DEF - Janine Sonis (DEN): Scored twice and added an assist from fullback across four matches.

MF - Jaelin Howell (GFC): Had two assists and double digit tackles won, clearances, and interceptions.

MF - Croix Bethune (KC): Tallied one goal and four assists across five matches in the month.

MF - Rose Lavelle (GFC): Scored two goals, both match winners, in back to back games.

FW - Evelyn Ijeh (NC): Scored four goals in the month, highlighted by a hat trick against Orlando.

FW - Esther González (GFC): Found the back of the net four times in four matches, with two braces against Utah and Seattle.

FW - Trinity Rodman (WAS): Had six goal contributions in as many matches, totaling five goals and one assist.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and broadcast talent.
