NEW YORK (May 14, 2025) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the 14 players nominated for the 2025 Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, recognizing an NWSL player for outstanding service and character off the pitch. The complete list of nominees and their chosen community partners can be found below:

Angel City FC \- Claire Emslie (City of Los Angeles Department of Recreation and Parks; GPLA Leadership Academy Program)

Bay FC \- Racheal Kundananji (Soccer Without Borders)

Chicago Stars FC \- Bea Franklin (Digs With Dignity)

Gotham FC \- Ryan Campbell (Katie’s Save)

Houston Dash \- Abby Smith (Kids’ Meals Houston)

Kansas City Current \- Claire Hutton (MINDDRIVE)

Racing Louisville FC \- Lauren Milliet (Trees Louisville)

North Carolina Courage \- Hannah Betfort (WakeEd)

Orlando Pride \- Haley McCutcheon (Foundation for Foster Children)

Portland Thorns FC \- Sam Hiatt (Candlelighters Oregon)

Seattle Reign FC \- Cassie Miller (The Nick of Time Foundation)

San Diego Wave \- Kyra Carusa (The Athlete Academy Foundation)

Utah Royals \- Kate Del Fava (Primary Children's Hospital)

Washington Spirit \- Ashley Hatch (DC Scores)

Of the 14 Club nominees, one will be announced as the winner during Championship weekend. At that time, Nationwide will make a $50,000 donation to the charitable organization of the winner’s choice.

The Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, was introduced in 2024 to honor the two-time NWSL Champion and Olympic gold medalist, FIFA Women’s World Cup champion, National Soccer Hall of Fame inductee, and recipient of the Muhammad Ali Sports Humanitarian ESPY Award Lauren Holiday. It spotlights players who exemplify dedication and commitment to giving back in service of their local communities. Holiday retired from the NWSL in 2015 following a career during which she won back-to-back championships, was named the 2013 NWSL MVP and awarded the Golden Boot, and was named the 2014 NWSL Championship MVP.

"This year's award nominees continue to set new standards for what it means to use their platform as athletes to give back,” said Lauren Holiday. “It is a privilege to highlight this incredible group of women who are committed to both their NWSL clubs, and working to improve the communities that these clubs call home.”

“Since partnering with the National Women’s Soccer League to co-create this award, Nationwide has been honored to champion and drive this purposeful philanthropic platform forward,” said Ann Bair, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Nationwide. “We are proud to support and spotlight the meaningful work all of the nominees are doing, and we look forward to celebrating our 2025 Lauren Holiday Impact Award winner later this year.”

The winner will be determined by a panel of judges that will include Lauren Holiday, NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman, and representatives from Nationwide, NWSLPA, and Media Association.

“Sports has the power to unite communities, and the NWSL is proud to be the home of athletes whose dedication to giving back exemplifies how professional sports can bring people together around shared causes,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “This year’s Lauren Holiday Impact Award Nominees represent the best that our league has to offer when it comes to on-field talent and off-field activism.”

For more information on the Lauren Holiday Impact Award program, click here.

About NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars, Denver FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Nationwide

Nationwide, a Fortune 100 company based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest and strongest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the United States. Nationwide is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s. An industry leader in driving customer-focused innovation, Nationwide provides a full range of insurance and financial services products including auto, business, homeowners, farm and life insurance; public and private sector retirement plans, annuities and mutual funds; excess & surplus, specialty and surety; and pet, motorcycle and boat insurance. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com.

Nationwide, Nationwide is on your side and the Nationwide N and Eagle are service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. © 2025
