The top-seeded Orlando Pride defeated No. 2 Washington Spirit, 1-0, on Saturday night at CPKC Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, to win the 2024 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, the first in team history. The Pride finish the 2024 season as the NWSL Shield Winners and the 2024 NWSL Champions, becoming the first team since 2019 to win both trophies in a single season and the first professional sports team from Orlando to win a major league trophy.

The win caps off a storybook season for the Pride, who broke the league record for most points in a season (60), most wins in a season (18) and most clean sheets in a season (13). The Pride also finished the 2024 season unbeaten at home with a record of 10-0-3 during the regular season along with victories at Inter&Co Stadium in the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds. The Pride were also riddled in End-Of-Year NWSL Award winners, including Seb Hines as NWSL Coach of the Year, Emily Sams as Defender of the Year and five Best XI winners including Sams, Marta, Barbra Banda, Anna Moorhouse and Kerry Abello.

The Pride were backed by a goal from Barbra Banda, who scored her fourth goal of the NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, to earn the 2024 NWSL Championship Match MVP award. The four goals are the most scored in an NWSL Playoff in league history, while the team’s eight goals across postseason tie an NWSL record. Angelina provided the assist on the Banda finish, becoming the first international player to record an assist in the NWSL Final.

The Pride earned another clean sheet, their 14th of the season, behind five saves from goalkeeper Moorhouse as well as some stellar performances from the Pride backline in rookie Cori Dyke, Abello, Kylie Strom and Sams.

To celebrate the championship and to honor the team’s players, Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer invites the community to downtown Orlando for a parade and celebration on Monday, Nov. 25, 2024. The parade will head down Orange Avenue, starting at Central Boulevard at 4:30 p.m., and include Orlando Pride players, the Walt Disney World’s Main Street Philharmonic, special guests, and giveaways as it makes its way to Orlando City Hall.

Following the parade, the festivities will continue outside City Hall from 5-5:45 p.m. with a celebration ceremony. During the ceremony, the community will get the first look at the NWSL Championship trophy.

More information is available at www.orlandocitysc.com/pride/.
