As the second week of the Summer Cup kicks off, fans can look forward to another round of high-quality matches between NWSL and LIGA MX Femenil clubs. We've got all the details on what to expect from this weekend’s fixtures!

How do I watch live games from the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup?

CBS Sports will be the exclusive English-language distributor of all 33 Summer Cup games, with every match set to stream live on Paramount+, 11 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Golazo Network and 12 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Network, including the semifinals and championship match.

TUDN, the sports programming branch of Spanish-language network Univision, will air three group stage matches while NWSL+ will serve as the Spanish-language home for the remaining group stage matches in the U.S.

Group E: Racing Louisville FC vs North Carolina Courage - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

Racing Louisville FC is home again this Friday after having hosted C.F. Monterrey at Lynn Family Stadium last weekend and winning 3-1. They’ll be facing off against the North Carolina Courage, who were only able to score a single goal against their opponents Orlando Pride last weekend but won 2 points from the match thanks to their penalty kick shootout. We’re only one game into the Summer Cup so far but Louisville’s team chemistry has been clinical so far, resulting in 3 quality goals against a LIGA MX Femenil opponent. Players to watch are Louisville rookie Emma Sears and Courage forward Manaka Matsukubo, who scored her squad’s lone regular time goal and led the team in shots.

Group D: Chicago Red Stars vs C.D. Guadalajara - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+

The Chicago Red Stars narrowly lost their opening Summer Cup match last weekend against away team Gotham FC during the penalty shootout and during regular time, were unable to convert any of their chances. They’re hosting C.D. Guadalajara this Friday evening, who lost by a single goal to the Washington Spirit last weekend. With only 1 shot on target which resulted in a goal, Chivas can figure out how to create more pressure on their opponent’s backlines, they may be able to challenge the Red Stars and get on the scoreboard more often. Alicia Cervantes, last match’s goal scorer and recently victorious representing LIGA MX during the MLS All-Star Skills Challenge, will surely be a player to watch.

Group B: San Diego Wave vs Club América - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

The San Diego Wave were dominant last week when they hosted their northern neighbors, Bay FC at Torero Stadium, defeating their opponents 3-1. They’re back again this Friday evening and hosting Club América this time, who fell last weekend to Angel City FC in Los Angeles. América’s late match drive that resulted in a goal means they have endurance and tenacity, something the Wave should be mindful of. Fortunately for the Wave, it seems their regular season troubles with finding the back of the net have been resolved, something that will come in handy in their second Summer Cup match.

Group B: Bay FC vs Angel City FC - 10:30 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN, Paramount+

It’ll be the third time these two California-based clubs have faced off in league history, and Angel City FC has yet to get a point off of the expansion team. Last week, Bay FC out possessed San Diego and at times looked to be the better side, but were unable to capitalize on chances or test the Wave’s backline, appearing disjointed and directionless. This may be ACFC’s opportunity to find victory and avenge their regular season results.

Group E: Orlando Pride vs C.F. Monterrey - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+

Orlando Pride returns home this week to host Las Rayadas in the first fixture of Saturday evening. Last week, the Pride suffered their first loss of the season in North Carolina, although the results from the Summer Cup do not impact their regular season standings or unbeaten streak. With only nine shots and three on target, the Pride will have had a week to regroup and analyze their game, and be eager to return to their goal-scoring form this weekend.

Group C: Kansas City Current vs Pachuca Femenil - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+

With 21 shots and 8 on target, the Current demonstrated a strong offensive presence last weekend when they hosted the Dash at CPKC Stadium. This week, they will face LIGA MX Femenil's Pachuca Femenil, who were recently outperformed by their rivals Tigres UANL in the opening weekend of Summer Cup. The Current will need to be particularly vigilant of Pachuca striker Charlyn Corral, who scored both of Pachuca's goals last weekend and has a knack for striking from distance.

Group A: Utah Royals FC vs Portland Thorns FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, CBSSN

Portland returns to Utah this weekend after their last visit at the end of June. That regular season match ended in a 0-0 draw, a result that might have surprised league fans accustomed to a Thorns squad eager to get on the scoresheet. However, last weekend, the Thorns were back to their goal-scoring ways, netting five quality goals against LIGA MX Femenil’s Club Tijuana while holding their opponents to just two shots on target. Utah will have their hands full this weekend but have the experience necessary to fend off a potent Thorns offense.

Group A: Seattle Reign FC vs Club Tijuana - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+

Club Tijuana, the lowest-ranked of the six LIGA MX Femenil squads, enters the tournament as underdogs, but Seattle Reign should not underestimate them. Las Xolas are lethal from long range and dangerous when they get into the box, making them a worthy opponent on Sunday. The Reign recently defeated Utah 2-1 at home, and with the momentum from their previous victory combined with home-field advantage, they will be seeking another three points..

Group D: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs Washington Spirit - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

Always an exciting matchup, both Gotham FC and the Spirit head into their Sunday evening fixture bolstered by their previous Summer Cup victories. Gotham FC, despite struggling to score in regular time, secured two points thanks to a successful penalty shootout. The Spirit, on the other hand, netted two goals in regular time last weekend against a competitive Chivas side to lock down three points.

Group C: Houston Dash vs Tigres UANL - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

The Houston Dash are set to host LIGA MX Femenil titans Tigres UANL in the final match of the weekend. After a loss in Kansas City last weekend, the Dash will be eager to secure a better result this Sunday. Meanwhile, Tigres, true to form, dominated their LIGA MX Femenil rivals Pachuca last Friday, with a 4-2 victory and head to Texas refreshed and determined to continue their winning streak.
