Only one game Friday night but it’s a good one. Both the Dash and Reign are off to strong starts in 2026 compared to their 2025 seasons, and seeing two very balanced teams face off is a great indicator for fans of where they stand now that they’ve acclimated to the new season. Houston was narrowly defeated last weekend by North Carolina. Seattle, meanwhile, was defeated at home by Utah, who has never won in the state of Washington in club history. While the loss may have been demoralizing, it was a good lesson for a team that has all the pieces to go the distance this season. As for Houston, they’re home and they’ve only been held scoreless there once in the past year – and it was last weekend.

It’s a 2024 NWSL Championship rematch and it couldn’t come at a more intriguing time. After a stumble at the start of the season, the Spirit are back to their dangerous ways. Leicy Santos and Trinity Rodman are to thank for that. Last weekend, Santos scored her first career brace and Rodman scored her first of the season. In their midweek game against Racing, Rodman scored again. Since coming off SEI, though, Barbra Banda hasn't missed a beat. The Spirit have held a club record with four straight shutouts, but if anyone can break through, it's Banda. But a Rodman firing on all cylinders is a scary thing for defenders, and Orlando’s backline looked leaky last weekend against Louisville.Cleaning that up and putting a stop on Rodman’s box runs will be key if they want to grab a home win to work their way back up the table.

Ashley Sanchez has seemingly had all the answers for North Carolina this season, with five goals to her name in 2026, tying her for the lead for the Golden Boot race. Meanwhile, the Current looked fearless against Gotham a few weeks ago, putting a stop to the team that defeated them in the playoffs in 2025. But then last weekend, their four-goal shutout loss against the Spirit showed a defense unable to contain forwards and an offense that looked disorganized. They’re on the road this weekend which means they won’t have their faithful fans at their back to rally them. Remembering the Current of 2025 and maintaining the midfield will be the key to managing a Courage that has not only Sanchez but 2025 NWSL Midfielder of the Year Manaka Matsukubo in it.

The 2026 era of the Utah Royals are different from anything you’ve ever seen before from this squad. Sitting in third after last weekend (but now in fifth due to extra games played by midweek teams), they’re having an incredible season. Last weekend, they defeated the Reign in Seattle 3-0, scoring three unanswered first-half goals, and with two of those goals in the first seven minutes of the match. It was the quickest two goals scored from kickoff in club history, and they followed the strong offensive first half with a perfect second half defensively. Angel City, meanwhile, started out strong out the gates but have taken their foot off the gas in the last few weeks. Nothing to be worried about though, they’ve still shown plenty of moments of brilliance in those two weeks and with their home fans behind them, they have the advantage in a match that both teams are going to want to walk away from with all three points.

There are a lot of teams to fear this season but none more so than the Portland Thorns, who on Wednesday battled the No. 1 team in the league, the Wave, and held them scoreless in the beautiful Providence Park. Sophia Wilson is now two back-to-back goals in and looking as dangerous as ever and that may be cause for some concern for Chicago who – despite beating Boston handily at home last weekend – looks like they’re still in a bit of a rebuild. Goalkeeper Katie Atkinson, recently elevated to starter, has looked strong in goal in her two appearances this season, but veteran Alyssa Naeher got the start for Wednesday's game. Atkinson will be vital for the Stars if not only Wilson but the other cast of Thorns goalscorers shows up hungry for a win to try and put distance between them and the Wave in the standings.

It’s the new kids on the block! Boston Legacy hosts fellow 2026 expansion side Denver Summit on Sunday afternoon for their 2026 Pride Match and we are all sat, especially after Wednesday. Boston midfielder Alba Caño and Sammy Smith scored their first NWSL goals against the Courage in what would end in a draw. It was the best showing the Legacy have put out all season. Have they finally figured out their game plan? Meanwhile, the Summit last weekend put the Wave through their paces, scoring two unanswered goals in the first half. However, they let the Wave in through the door in the second half, and saw their 2-0 lead end in a 2-3 loss. If they clean up their defense before this weekend on the training grounds and Boston keeps its Wednesday flow, this could be a battle between two teams who are new to this but haven’t let that stop them from having fun on the pitch.

The reigning NWSL Champs host Bev Yanez’s Racing team Sunday evening, a quick turn around for both squads who played a Wednesday night game. Louisville was defeated 1-0 by the Spirit in their midweek match, but one thing they can take away is that they held the Spirit to a lone goal and had strong moments in the midfield. They’ll have their work cut out for them though against a Gotham side that’s been powered by one rookie to keep an eye on – Jordynn Dudley. On Wednesday, she scored her first pro goal, just a few days after getting her first pro assist. Gotham also had incorporated Norwegian left winger Guro Reiten into the mix and her championship pedigree has mixed well with her new teammates of World Cup winners and NWSL champions. Gotham’s title defense season has been a little up and down but things are starting to trend up for them at a good time.

And last but certainly not least, it’s a NorCal vs. SoCal showdown in San Diego. The Wave host their Bay Area neighbors, Bay FC. On Wednesday, the Wave saw their top-of–the-table positioning go to the Thorns, were held scoreless and looked uncharacteristically disorganized and frustrated. This team has untold levels of passion, however, and have shown the ability to come back from large scoring deficits (ex: their 3-2 win in Denver last weekend) and defeats. The Bay will have their work cut out for them, but if Alex Pfeiffer is back from injury and they can get her scoring early and often, there’s a huge chance for an underdog win in San Diego.
