With Week 22 on the horizon, there’s still plenty left to fight for. The Orlando Pride could claim the newly revealed NWSL Shield, multiple teams aim to secure a top-4 seed and a home quarterfinal and the North Carolina Courage can grab the fifth of eight playoff spots. Meanwhile, the stakes are high for teams trying to keep their playoff hopes alive. With four teams in and four spots left, we have all the scenarios for what could prove to be a pivotal weekend across the league.

The weekend concludes with a huge matchup between the league’s top two teams. It could be a milestone day for the Pride, who look to extend their unbeaten streak to a full year - 365 days. A win would earn them the Shield and the first trophy in club history.

Orlando Pride has already clinched a playoff spot and a top four seed and will host a quarterfinal. Orlando clinches the NWSL Shield with:

A win

Orlando Pride vs. Washington Spirit - Sunday, October 6th at 5:00 pm ET

Washington Spirit has clinched a playoff spot and can clinch a top-4 seed/quarterfinal hosting with:

A win or draw OR

North Carolina draw or loss

Orlando Pride vs. Washington Spirit - Sunday, October 6th at 5:00 pm ET

Gotham FC has clinched a playoff spot and can clinch a top-4 seed/quarterfinal hosting with:

A win AND North Carolina draw or loss OR

A draw AND North Carolina loss

Gotham FC vs. Bay FC - Saturday, October 5th at 7:30 pm ET

Kansas City Current has clinched a playoff spot and can clinch a top-4 seed/quarterfinal hosting with:

A win AND North Carolina draw or loss

Racing Louisville FC vs. Kansas City Current - Saturday, October 5th at 7:30 pm ET

North Carolina Courage clinches a playoff spot with:

A win OR

Racing Louisville loss OR

A draw AND Portland draw or loss OR

A draw AND Louisville draw OR

Louisville draw AND Portland loss

North Carolina Courage vs. San Diego Wave - Saturday, October 5th at 7:00 pm ET

Utah Royals are eliminated with:

A loss OR

A draw AND Bay FC win or draw

Portland Thorns FC vs. Utah Royals FC - Saturday, October 5th at 10:00 pm ET

Houston Dash are eliminated with:

A draw or loss

Houston Dash vs. Chicago Red Stars - Friday, October 4th at 8:00 pm ET

Seattle Reign FC are eliminated with:

A loss AND Chicago win or draw AND Bay FC win AND Portland win OR

A loss AND Chicago win or draw AND Louisville win AND Bay FC win AND Portland draw OR

A draw AND Chicago win AND Bay FC win AND Portland win

Seattle Reign FC vs. Angel City FC - Friday, October 4th at 10:00 pm ET

Angel City FC are eliminated with:

A loss AND Bay win or draw AND Portland win or draw OR

A loss AND Louisville win or draw AND Bay win or draw OR

A draw AND Chicago win or draw AND Bay win AND Portland win OR

A draw AND Chicago win or draw AND Louisville win AND Bay win AND Portland draw

Seattle Reign FC vs. Angel City FC - Friday, October 4th at 10:00 pm ET
