(NEW YORK) November 21, 2025 \- The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and CarMax, the nation’s largest retailer of used cars, today announced a multi-year renewal of their partnership, extending CarMax’s role as the league’s Official Auto Retailer. The announcement comes as the league kicks off Championship weekend, underscoring CarMax’s continued commitment to elevating the NWSL’s marquee moments, including its signature Skills Challenge.

Since becoming the NWSL’s first Official Auto Retailer in 2022, CarMax has played a key role in driving the league’s momentum and celebrating the athletes who inspire fans across the country. From presenting the NWSL Shield to powering tentpole fan experiences, CarMax has helped showcase the league’s growth and deepen engagement with one of the most passionate fan communities in sports.

“CarMax has been a steady and thoughtful partner of our league for a while, supporting our league in ways that are authentic to both their brand and ours,” said Matt Soloff, Senior Vice President of Partnerships. “This renewal isn’t just an extension, it’s about deepening a relationship that continues to elevate our players and bring fans closer to the game. We couldn’t be more excited to keep building together and take this next chapter to new heights.”

The renewal highlights a shared vision to expand and enhance some of the league’s most beloved initiatives—the NWSL Shield and NWSL Skills Challenge. CarMax’s coordination of the national broadcasting of the NWSL Skills Challenge helped make the 2024 edition the most-watched event in league history—and together, CarMax and the NWSL plan to build on that momentum in the years ahead.

“Extending our partnership with the NWSL was an easy decision,” said Sarah Lane, Chief Marketing Officer at CarMax. “This renewal underscores our ongoing commitment to advancing women’s soccer and empowering athletes on and off the pitch. As the presenting partner of both the NWSL Skills Challenge and the NWSL Shield, we’re proud to support two of the league’s most celebrated moments—one that highlights dynamic talent in a fan-favorite format, and another that honors season-long excellence. Together with the NWSL, we’re helping build a lasting legacy of visibility, recognition, and impact for the sport.”

The multi-year extension underscores CarMax’s support in the growth of women’s soccer and its dedication to empowering athletes on and off pitch. Through the NWSL Shield award presentation and fan-favorite tentpole events like the Skills Challenge, CarMax continues to drive the game and celebrate the athletes who inspire millions.

ABOUT THE NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Atlanta NWSL, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

ABOUT CARMAX

Founded more than 30 years ago, CarMax set out to fundamentally change the way people buy used cars — offering the honesty and transparency customers deserve. It was the original disruptor to introduce a true "no-haggle" car-buying model, setting a new standard for the industry.

Today, CarMax has grown into the nation's largest retailer of used cars with more than 250 stores nationwide and more than 28,000 associates, and is proud to have been recognized for 21 consecutive years as one of the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For®.

At CarMax, customers are in the driver’s seat. Whether shopping online, in-store, or a combination of both, we make the process seamless and empowering — offering guidance at every step so you feel confident in your purchase.

CarMax gives customers the flexibility to buy a vehicle online and either pick it up quickly in-store through express pickup or have it delivered to their home or workplace with home delivery (available within a 60-mile radius of select stores).

CarMax offers a 10-day Money Back Guarantee so customers have plenty of time to decide if the car they buy is right for their life.

For customers trading in or selling, CarMax will buy your car — even if you don’t buy theirs. Get an online offer in two minutes or less; it’s good for seven days to compare options. Track your car’s estimated value over time with Offer Watch, with no purchase or sale required, and then sell the car from the comfort of your home or office with an at-home pickup.

Customers can shop CarMax's nationwide inventory of more than 45,000 cars with upfront pricing, and have the option to ship to the customer’s local store (fee and restrictions may apply), with no pressure to buy.

For more information, visit carmax.com.
