The NWSL may be on an international break, but there is certain to be plenty of action this week as free agency begins. With a hearty list of eligible players, there is a lot of potential for movement across the league, shaking things up before the second half of the season.

Two of the triple espresso, a teenage phenom, and the Celly Queen herself, Lo’Eau LaBonta all could be on the move. These are just some of the key players to keep an eye on during this free agency period.

SOPHIA WILSON

It’s already been a transformative year for Sophia Wilson, as she and her husband, Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Michael Wilson, await the arrival of their first child, but will free agency bring yet another momentous move for the forward?

Wilson was the first pick in the 2020 NWSL Draft and has spent her entire career with the Thorns. She helped lead the Thorns to a 2022 NWSL Championship win, scoring just four minutes into the game. Wilson was both the 2022 Championship and League MVP, securing her place in Portland’s storied history.

When she returns to play – in Portland or elsewhere – Wilson is sure to be an impact player.

TRINITY RODMAN

Wilson isn’t the only member of the iconic Triple Espresso who could leave her original team. Washington Spirit’s Trinity Rodman landed in D.C. in 2021 as the youngest player to be drafted in NWSL history at the time. Since then, her sheer skill, flair, and signature pink braids have brought an exhilarating jolt to an already established Spirit Club.

Though Rodman has been out since April with an injury, NWSL fans have eagerly awaited her return to Audi Field. With free agency action opening up, Rodman’s return could be in a new kit and a new city.

BIA ZANERATTO

Before coming to the NWSL, Bia Zanaratto was already a proven goalscorer in the Chinese and Brazilian leagues. But in just a season and a half with the Current, Bia quickly won over the Kansas City faithful, earning herself the title “the Teal Empress.”

Though Kansas City fell short of the NWSL Championship last season, which she missed the end of due to injury, Bia proved to be a difference maker with her electric play, and she is on pace to outperform her NWSL debut season. In the first half of the 2025 season alone, she has already tied her total goals for the whole of 2024 with five.

If this is any indication, she will hit the ground running in the second half of the season, but whether her reign as Current royalty will continue remains to be seen.

LO LABONTA

Bia isn’t the only Current player who may be on the move. Captain Lo LaBonta has been with the Kansas City Current since its first season in 2021. The originator of the “KC Baby” chant and dubbed the “Celly Queen,” LaBonta is a foundational member of the Current culture and the heartbeat of the organization.

Aside from being a leader and a steadfast teammate, LaBonta is just as reliable on the pitch with 19 regular season goals since joining the Current, including converting 12 out of 13 career penalty kicks. She also has 23 career game-winning goals, second in league history, with six of them for KC.

But that veteran presence on the field and in the locker room is something that any team in the league could benefit from should she decide to turn the page on her time in Kansas City.

MIDGE PURCE

The last five years with Gotham FC have been nothing short of a rollercoaster for Midge Purce. After being traded to Gotham by the Thorns in 2020, the forward had a breakout season in 2021, finishing second in the Golden Boot race with nine goals and was a 2021 NWSL MVP finalist.

Despite spending much of the 2023 season out after tearing her quad, Purce came roaring back into action. She assisted both of Gotham’s goals in the club’s 2023 NWSL Championship win, becoming just the second player to be named the NWSL Championship MVP without scoring a goal.

After tearing her ACL at the beginning of the 2024 season, Purce returned to the pitch in April of this year to the excitement of NWSL fans everywhere who appreciate her bursts of speed and her cheeky nutmegging abilities. She’s a valuable member for any team looking to go the distance this season, so she could test free agency for a new team and new challenge.

JESS FISHLOCK

To say Jess Fishlock is a foundational player for the Seattle Reign might be underselling it.

When the Seattle Reign played its first game more than 12 years ago, Fishlock was there alongside the likes of Megan Rapinoe and Hope Solo. She scored her first goal for the Reign in the team’s very first match against the Portland Thorns, which would eventually turn into the storied Cascadia Rivalry.

The Welsh midfielder spent some time on loan, but she always came back home to Seattle. Now, with free agency here, Fishlock could test the waters elsewhere.

CASEY MURPHY

Casey Murphy has been anchoring the Courage in net since 2020, which includes two NWSL Challenge Cup wins. From 2021 to 2024, Murphy had a whopping 32 clean sheets, and she completed her first iron woman season in 2024, playing every single minute.

Murphy is a reliable presence in goal for North Carolina, but as teams start to make adjustments and additions heading into the back half of season, she might just be a hot commodity for any team looking for a veteran presence on the back line.

MELANIE BARCENASMelanie Barcenas is making her hometown of San Diego proud. At just 17, Barcenas has the skill and presence that makes it easy to forget that she went from the pitch to prom earlier this season. She also regularly makes appearances for the U.S. Youth National Teams.

Barcenas’s career is ahead of her, and while there’s an advantage to playing in your hometown surrounded by friends and family, now that she’s graduated from high school, she could look for an experience elsewhere in the league. Any team looking to develop a young and promising midfielder to complement their roster will surely be giving her a call.

JI SO-YUN

Ji So-Yun is widely considered to be a trailblazer for Asian players in soccer. South Korea’s all-time leading goal scorer with 72 goals in 166 appearances, in her first year in Seattle, Ji became the first Korean player to score in the NWSL when she scored against Chicago at home.

Ji is beloved in the Seattle community and a valued presence on the field for a team that is currently in a rebuild (and doing so successfully) with an average starting lineup age of 24. She currently leads Reign this season in successful passes in the final third, making her one of the most important pieces to their offensive plan. If she wants a new challenge elsewhere, however, this is the perfect time to test the waters.

CARSON PICKETT

In her second stint with the Orlando Pride, Carson Pickett enters free agency as one of the most experienced and versatile defenders on the market, with more than 150 NWSL regular season appearances. A key midseason addition to Orlando last year, which ended in them lifting the NWSL Championship trophy in Kansas City, she played a pivotal role in helping Orlando end the season as one of the toughest teams to score on, only allowing 23 goals all regular season.

Pickett has a wealth of playoff experience and a proven track record of elevating a team in the final seconds. The two-time Defender of the Year finalist could complement any roster looking for the final piece to make a run for a title.

You can follow all the action with the NWSL Free Agency Tracker.
