NEW YORK (March 17, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the broadcast team for its 2023 season which kicks off on Saturday March 25, 2023. The roster includes a pool of veteran announcers and analysts with experience calling matches on soccer’s grandest international stages, including the FIFA World Cup, CONCACAF Gold Cup, UEFA European Championship and Olympic Games.

NEW YORK (March 17, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the broadcast team for its 2023 season which kicks off on Saturday March 25, 2023. The roster includes a pool of veteran announcers and analysts with experience calling matches on soccer’s grandest international stages, including the FIFA World Cup, CONCACAF Gold Cup, UEFA European Championship and Olympic Games.

The talent team will provide expert play-by-play and match analysis for all 176 matches this season, across CBS Sports Platforms and internationally on TSN and NWSLSoccer.com, concluding with the 2023 Ally NWSL Championship presented by CarMax, set for an 8 p.m. ET primetime kickoff on Saturday, November 11. “Our continued mission is to provide the best viewing experience for fans tuning into the NWSL around the world, and this incredibly talented on-air crew will surely play a role in accomplishing that goal with their exceptional soccer knowledge and passion for our league, clubs and players,” said Executive Producer of NWSL Media Brian Gordon. “In addition to delivering expert commentary and match analysis, we're confident this team will be instrumental in bringing to life the stories that make the NWSL so captivating.” The league welcomed six new additions to the broadcast team for the 2023 campaign, including longtime soccer commentator and journalist Jacqui Oatley, who will be joined by Lori Lindsey in the booth, with former England Women’s National Team member Lianne Sanderson reporting from the pitch for the CBS National match broadcasts. Former NWSL and U.S. Women’s National Team goalkeeper Jill Loyden, 2000 MLS Cup champion and MVP Tony Meola, Philadelphia 76ers play-by-play announcer Kate Scott and World Cup and Olympic medalist Saskia Webber are also newcomers the NWSL broadcasts on CBS Sports Network and Paramount+. This year’s talent lineup also features a number of returners to the NWSL broadcast booth, including play-by-play announcers JP Dellacamera, Josh Eastern, Jenn Hildreth, Joe Malfa, Maura Sheridan, Jamie Watson and Mike Watts as well as color analysts Jordan Angeli and former Manchester United goalkeeper Gary Bailey. Select guest analysts will join the group throughout the season and be announced at a later date. Additional international distribution information will be released prior to season kickoff.? The full talent roster can be viewed below.

Play-by-play

JP Dellacamera, one of the pioneering voices of American soccer, currently serves as a FOX Sports play-by-play announcer for its premier soccer portfolio, including FIFA World Cups, Major League Soccer and the U.S. Women’s National Team. Dellacamera brings decades of experience covering a total of 16 FIFA World Cups (10 men’s, six women’s) on television and radio beginning with ESPN in 1986 and, most recently, the 2022 FIFA World Cup on FOX. He was the lead ESPN radio voice for the FIFA World Cups in 2010 and 2014. With NBC, Dellacamera covered three Olympic Games from 2004-2012 and was the lead play-by-play men’s and women’s soccer announcer in 2004 and 2008. Until 2023, the broadcaster served as the lead television play-by-play voice for the Philadelphia Union.

Josh Eastern begins his fourth season calling matches in the NWSL in 2023. Eastern has called games in the regular season, playoffs, Challenge Cup and Fall Series. In addition to his work with the NWSL, Eastern also serves as a play-by-play announcer in the USL Championship, USL League One and various CONCACAF properties such as the Gold Cup, both men's and women's World Cup qualifying and Champions League, along with the Premier Hockey Federation. Eastern is a 2019 graduate of Indiana University.

Jenn Hildreth is an Emmy Award-winning sports broadcaster with 20 years' experience in such roles as play-by-play, studio host and reporter. A year-round play-by-play announcer with ESPN, she also joined AppleTV’s inaugural roster of Major League Soccer broadcasters in 2023 and is the only female play-by-play commentator for their groundbreaking first season of “MLS Season Pass.” Among the more active national network commentators in women’s soccer, Hildreth’s resume includes the college, professional and international levels of the sport. She regularly announces on college telecasts for ESPN, including the annual NCAA Women’s College Cup, and has been a leading voice for the NWSL, which she’s called since 2015 on CBS Sports, ESPN, Lifetime and FOX Sports. Her international work includes FOX Sports’ coverage of the FIFA Women's World Cup in 2015 & 2019; NBC Sports’ coverage of the 2020 Olympic Games (men’s and women’s); and ESPN’s coverage of UEFA Women's Euro 2022, the US Women's National Team and the Women’s International Champions Cup. Additionally, she has called MLS for FOX Sports and men’s college soccer for ESPN.

Joe Malfa is in his fourth season as one of the play-by-play voices of the NWSL. Malfa’s additional experience includes play-by-play for MLS, USL Championship, USL League One, U.S. Open Cup and various other professional soccer tournaments and events. A graduate from the University of Maryland, Malfa is also a member of ESPN’s men’s and women’s college soccer talent roster.

Jacqui Oatley brings 20 years of sports broadcasting experience to the NWSL, covering both men’s and women’s soccer. Oatley has announced a variety of international soccer events, including FIFA World Cups, UEFA European Championships and Olympic Games. Oatley currently serves as a commentator on Sky Sports’ Women’s Super League and men’s Premier League worldwide coverage. The first female play-by-play commentator on BBC Match of the Day, Oatley was a regular sports presenter on the BBC News Channel between 2011 and 2013. Most recently, the broadcaster provided play-by-play for FOX Sports during the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar.

Kate Scott is the current television voice of the NBA’s Philadelphia 76ers for NBC Sports Philadelphia. A decorated sportscaster with experience across several sports, Scott is a pioneer in her field, having been one of the first women to serve in a number of roles throughout television and radio, including as a play-by-play announcer for both Copa América?and CONCACAF Gold Cup on FOX, and as a commentator for both the NBA, NFL and NHL. On International Women’s Day in 2020, she was part of the first-ever all-women's broadcast crew for a National Hockey League game on NBCSN, providing play-by-play with Olympians A.J. Mleczko and Kendall Coyne Schofield as analysts. She is also the longtime play-by-play announcer for men’s and women’s soccer on Pac-12 Network and served as the play-by-play lead for the 2022 Under-20 Women’s World Cup on FOX.

Maura Sheridan is in her second year broadcasting NWSL matches. She also calls college sports, including ACC women’s soccer for ESPN. The 2018 graduate of Syracuse University has been behind the mic for CONCACAF World Cup qualifiers and US Open Cup matches as well.

Jamie Watson brings over 650 hours of live sports broadcast experience to her play-by-play role in the NWSL, Watson has covered all sports including the NFL, MLB, Fantasy Football, Golf, Tennis, World Cup, NBA, NCAA Basketball, Soccer, Field Hockey and Lacrosse. Recently, Watson provided play-by-play for 18 games as part of the World Games Women’s Lacrosse Championships for ESPN. In addition, Watson’s on-air resume includes commentary for the men’s and women’s soccer programs at Loyola University of Maryland and the men’s and women’s lacrosse teams at Mount St. Mary’s.

Mike Watts is entering his eighth year covering the NWSL dating to the league's second season in 2014, covering over 125 league matches after earning his first professional broadcast assignment with Sky Blue FC. Watts has commentated premier worldwide events for ESPN, CONCACAF, USL and SEC Network’s soccer coverage. Beyond soccer, Watts is the preseason TV voice of the Cincinnati Bengals and an announcer for Westwood One's college football and NFL coverage, in addition to covering the NBA, NBA G League, WNBA, and NCAA.

Analysts

Jordan Angeli is currently working for the Colorado Rapids in MLS as their face of Apple content. She spent 3 years as the lead analyst for the Columbus Crew in MLS on Bally Sports after becoming the first woman in the Crew’s history to hold a full time TV-analyst position. Prior to her time at Columbus Crew, she worked as both a radio analyst and an in-stadium host with the Colorado Rapids. A former player in the NWSL, Angeli’s career includes time spent with the Boston Breakers, Western New York Flash, and the Washington Spirit.?The 2023 season marks Angeli’s eighth year on the NWSL’s broadcast team.

Gary Bailey spent 10 years as a goalkeeper at Manchester United where he won the FA Cup in 1983 and 1985. Bailey also spent time as a member of the England men’s national team and was part of the English World Cup squad that reached the quarterfinals in 1986. After retiring, he was the lead analyst on all soccer for SuperSport TV in South Africa for 25 years and served as an ambassador for South Africa's 2010 FIFA World Cup. In addition to the NWSL, Bailey also provides color commentary for USL.

Lori Lindsey is a former U.S. Women’s National Team Player whose professional playing career spanned 13 years, with her most notable accomplishment representing the United States Women’s National Team at the 2011 Women’s World Cup in Germany, and helping the team earn the 2012 Olympic Gold Medal in London. Lindsey is one of only four players to have played in all three of the U.S. professional women’s soccer leagues and now works in broadcast calling matches with ESPN, FOX Sports, and CBS Sports. Lindsey currently serves as a lead analyst for the inaugural MLS + Apple TV Season Pass deal.?

Jill Loyden is a former member of the U.S. Women’s National Team and veteran goalkeeper with experience in the NWSL, WPS and the Australian W-League. After retiring from playing professional soccer, Loyden opened The Keeper Institute headquarters to begin her coaching career in summer of 2015. She served as the goalkeeper coach for Sky Blue FC for the 2016 and 2017 seasons and worked with the U.S. Youth National Teams in the same capacity. Loyden has also served as a color analyst for ESPN.

Tony Meola begins his first season as a commentator in the NWSL. A 10-year veteran of the MLS and 2000 league and MLS Cup MVP, Meola remains the only goalkeeper in history to win the league’s top on-field honor. In addition to his career in professional soccer, Meola is also a decorated member of the U.S. Men’s National Team, having made his debut on June 10, 1988, against Ecuador. He would go on to represent the U.S. for several international competitions, including the 1990, 1994 and 2002 FIFA World Cups. He was elected to the National Soccer Hall of Fame in 2012. The host of Sirius XM’s nightly show Counter Attack, Meola’s broadcasting credits include the 2018 FIFA World Cup, Copa America, M.L.S., Champions League, Europa League, Bundesliga, Concacaf Champions League, CONCACAF Nations League, U.S.L. Championship.

Lianne Sanderson returns to the NWSL as an analyst after a successful playing career, where she featured for various clubs in the WPS, WSL and NWSL, including the Boston Breakers, Orlando Pride and Portland Thorns FC, during a successful playing career. On the international stage, Sanderson earned 50 caps as a member of the England Women’s National Team, making her debut in May of 2006. She went on to represent the team at both the 2007 and 2015 FIFA Women’s World Cup as well as the UEFA Women’s European Championship in 2009. In addition to her sideline reporting role on CBS matches, Sanderson will serve in the same capacity for a number of CBS Sports Network and Paramount+ contests.

Saskia Webber was a member of the famed 1999 USA World Cup team, Webber made her USWNT debut in 1992. Among her many accomplishments, Webber earned a bronze medal in the 1995 World Cup and a gold medal in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. She played professional soccer for three years in Japan for Oki FC where she was named the top goalkeeper of the league. In 2001, as a founding member of the WUSA, Webber played the inaugural season for the Philadelphia Charge before finishing her playing career with her home team, The New York Power. Webber currently serves as the goalkeeping coach at the University of Southern California after serving in the same capacity at UCLA. Webber is a host of the podcast "Inside The 18". She is also the founder and co-owner of TheUnionSports.com.
