Week 3 kicks off on Wednesday evening and wraps up with the group stage concluding on Friday evening. Teams are battling fiercely for top positions in their groups to secure a spot in the semifinals, with many still vying for those coveted places. We have all the details on what to look forward to!

How do I watch live games from the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup?

CBS Sports will be the exclusive English-language distributor of all 33 Summer Cup games, with every match set to stream live on Paramount+, 11 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Golazo Network and 12 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Network, including the semifinals and championship match.

TUDN, the sports programming branch of Spanish-language network Univision, will air three group stage matches while NWSL+ will serve as the Spanish-language home for the remaining group stage matches in the U.S.

Group E: North Carolina Courage vs C.F. Monterrey - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

North Carolina Courage will face C.F. Monterrey at home Wednesday evening in the first match of week 3 of the Summer Cup. The Courage have drawn both of their previous group play matches, winning the subsequent penalty shootouts, and have managed to score just one goal in each match, courtesy of Riley Jackson and Manaka Matsukubo. Monterrey has conceded five goals in the tournament but has also netted three from three different scorers. Key players to watch include Rebeca Bernal for Monterrey, the captain and leader of the LIGA MX Femenil team who scored in their last match.

Group D: Washington Spirit vs Chicago Red Stars - 7:30 PM

Where to watch: Paramount+

The Washington Spirit are hosting fellow NWSL club, the Chicago Red Stars, for a rematch of the May 1st regular season showdown that saw the Spirit emerge victorious. The Spirit have had a sort of mixed bag tournament so far, winning their first match and losing their second after giving up a penalty. In their last match, they were unable to find the pack of the net despite multiple chances. The Red Stars, meanwhile, have been unable to score all tournament. Wednesday’s match is a good opportunity to change that.

Group A: Portland Thorns vs Seattle Reign - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

The Cascadia Clash is always a highlight, and the Summer Cup edition promises to be a must-watch for fans across the league. The Portland Thorns have displayed impressive depth, scoring six goals from six different players in their last two matches, showcasing their ability to strike from anywhere on the field. Meanwhile, the rookies of Reign FC have quickly adapted to the professional level, with two of them finding the net in their last match to secure a well-deserved home victory. The Thorns currently top their group and are well-positioned to advance to the Summer Cup Semifinals. One advantage they have: they’ll be fighting to advance while playing at home in front of their fans.

Group A: Utah Royals FC vs Club Tijuana - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+

No one is having a better week than the Utah Royals, who triumphed over league giants Portland Thorns with a 3-1 home victory last weekend. Royals rookie Ally Sentnor, the 2024 first overall draft pick, has flourished this summer and is undoubtedly a player to watch for curious fans and Tijuana defenders alike. Tijuana has shown flashes of brilliance, notably in their victory against the Reign last week, but they have also struggled, as evidenced by their scoreless match against Portland. With their hopes of advancing in the tournament now mathematically eliminated, Tijuana has nothing to lose in tomorrow's match, making them a potentially dangerous opponent.

Group E: Orlando Pride vs Racing Louisville FC - 7:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+, Golazo

Orlando is hosting Racing Louisville FC on the first match of Thursday evening, in a must watch match for both squads. Louisville has a tenuous hold on the group, sitting at the top with just 4 points after winning their first group match and losing in a penalty shootout in their second. Meanwhile, Orlando, despite a penalty shootout loss in their opener, bounced back with a strong performance in their next match, even without their leading goal scorer, Barbra Banda. Louisville faces a challenging task as they try to contain Orlando’s array of dangerous attackers, but with one of the league’s top midfields, they have a chance to secure a spot in the Summer Cup Semifinals.

Group C: Houston Dash vs Pachuca Femenil - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Paramount+

Houston Dash played hard last weekend against Tigres, and came out with a well-deserved and hard fought victory. They’re facing Pachuca, who had a few moments of brilliance against Tigres in their first group match when they scored two goals but have since been unable to find the scoresheet again. The Dash are not quite out of contention to advance to the Summer Cup Semifinals but will need to score early and often if they want to compete for a semifinal spot.

Group C: Kansas City Current vs Tigres UANL - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN, Paramount+

The Kansas City Current have been unstoppable this tournament, mirroring their dominant form throughout the regular season. They’ve won all their group play matches and head into their showdown with the LIGA MX Femenil giants with a comfortable goal differential and plenty of confidence. Tigres, who have netted 5 goals so far in the tournament, will look to put the Current’s defense – a defense that has only let in a single goal all tournament – to the test.

Group B: Angel City FC vs San Diego Wave FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN, Paramount+

In the Summer Cup edition of the SoCal rivalry match, Angel City FC and San Diego Wave will face off in Titan Stadium in the final match of Thursday. Angel City FC heads into the match on a high after a 2-0 victory over Bay FC, secured with a set piece and a precise run into the box. The Los Angeles-based squad looked calm and collected in their match in the Bay Area, with Angelina Anderson standing out for her leadership and crucial saves. San Diego Wave, despite a dominant win over Bay FC the week earlier, faced a setback in their second match against Club América, a team Angel City FC had previously beaten. This match is crucial for both sides: a win for Angel City FC would solidify their dominance in Group B, while a victory for San Diego Wave with a dominant scoreline could propel them past Angel City and their Liga MX Femenil group rival, América.

Group D: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs C.D. Guadalajara - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN, Paramount+, TUDN

NJ/NY Gotham FC is hosting C.D. Guadalajara this Friday evening in a must win match for both squads. So far in the tournament, Gotham has yet to score from the run of play, with their lone goal coming from a penalty in their second group match. Despite this, they demonstrated a dominant attacking presence in their last game, outshooting the Washington Spirit 18 to 4, including 6 shots on goal. C.D. Guadalajara, on the other hand, secured a goal in their last outing thanks to Gabriela Valenzuela, even though they struggled to maintain possession. Despite this, their effective play was enough to secure a result but they’ll need to have a few backup strategies against one of the best defenses in the NWSL.

Group B: Bay FC vs Club América - 10:30 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN, Paramount+, TUDN

Bay FC is hosting Club América in the final match of the group play Friday evening after losing the previous weekend to Angel City FC, who handily defeated América the week prior. Bay FC has struggled to find the back of the net this tournament, only getting on the scoresheet once. If they can keep América from darting into the box and defending set pieces in their half while also creating chances themselves, they may be able to end this tournament on a high note.
