The 2024 Women’s Africa Cup of Nations group stage has been a showcase for NWSL talent, with every team featuring an NWSL player advancing to the quarterfinals. Here’s how your favorite NWSL players have made their mark in Morocco this summer.

Asisat Oshoala (Bay FC) & Michelle Alozie (Houston Dash)

Asisat Oshoala once again led the way for Nigeria, scoring a key goal as her side powered through the group stages undefeated. Nigeria was the only team not to concede a single goal in the group stage, and Oshoala’s presence up front kept opposing defenses on edge throughout. Nigeria advances to the quarterfinals and will face Zambia on Friday, July 18 at 12PM ET.

Racheal Kundananji (Bay FC), Barbra Banda (Orlando Pride), Grace Chanda (Orlando Pride), Prisca Chilufya (Orlando Pride)

Zambia’s attack was unstoppable thanks to NWSL standouts Racheal Kundananji and Barbra Banda, who combined for all of their team’s goals in the group stage. Kundananji netted three goals and assisted Banda’s second of the tournament, earning back-to-back Player of the Match honors and a place in the group stage Best XI. Banda matched her with three goals, including a brace, and an assist of her own while also making the Best XI.

Notably, four NWSL players started for Zambia in the first two matches, the most NWSL players to start for one team in WAFCON history and the most NWSL talent ever on a single tournament roster. Zambia moves on to play Nigeria on Friday, July 18 at 12PM ET.

Stella Nyamekye (Gotham FC)

Stella Nyamekye was an important game changer for Ghana, featuring in two group matches and immediately making an impact off the bench in their final group stage match by assisting Ghana’s seventh goal of the tournament just four minutes after coming on. Ghana’s performance through the group stages sees them advance to a knockout clash with Algeria on Saturday, July 19 at 12PM ET.

Aïssata Traoré (Boston Legacy FC)

Aïssata Traoré, Boston Legacy FC’s first international signing and the first Malian player in the NWSL, delivered a crucial equalizer for Mali against Ghana, underscoring her value on the big stage. Mali advances to the quarterfinals, making back‑to‑back appearances in the WAFCON knockouts and NWSL fans eager to see more of Traoré will be tuned in. They’ll meet Morocco on Friday, July 18 at 3PM ET.
