It all comes down to this. Either the Washington Spirit or Gotham FC will leave San Jose two-time NWSL Champions.

Saturday’s big game will be the 44th time these clubs have met, more than any other two teams in league history – more than even Seattle and Portland! A rivalry Championship? Hold on to your hats, everybody!

The last time these teams met in the playoffs was the 2024 semifinals, where the Washington Spirit won in a PK shootout. If that's any indication, this one is bound to be fun.

The Washington Spirit are looking to avoid history repeating itself after losing to the Orlando Pride in the 2024 Championship. Gotham is looking to make history, as the first eight seed to win it all.

Both have motivation to fuel them, but who will finish out on top?

The Spirit are hoping things go differently this time around and have made a statement this postseason: they’re not messing around.

Washington finished second on the table, earning the right to host a quarterfinal game. The notoriously Rowdy Audi Field was electric in a PK shootout win over Racing Louisville. The Spirit supporters dubbed Aubrey Kingsbury the “Yellow Brick Wall” after she saved two shots from the spot to help secure the win. She now leads the league in shootout saves all time.

Last week, the Spirit hosted another club with extensive playoff history – the Portland Thorns. The Rose Kouassi to Gift Monday connection was alive and well for the second week in a row and for the fifth time this season – sixth including Concacaf games.

Croix Bethune got her first playoff goal after missing the 2024 playoffs to secure the win, and Trinity Rodman saw game action for the first time after her injury and even came close to getting on the scoresheet. The Spirit offense has the ability to create great chances with plenty of options to see the ball through.

The newly minted Defender of the Year, Tara McKeown, stepped up for her team three years ago when she was asked to switch from a forward to a defender. She wasn’t sure she was willing to do it, but she ultimately did for her team and has thrived there ever since. If the offense can get on the board, under her lead, the defense will hold up their end of the deal.

The Spirit are a well balanced team on all fronts. Since the summer break, five of their players have had five or more goal contributions – Gift Monday (7), Trinity Rodman (7), Rosemonde Kouassi (6), Croix Bethune (5), and Sofia Cantore (5) – a testament to their depth of attack and support from the back. As long as they can maintain that for one more match, it’ll be a fair fight.

Don’t count Gotham out. They’re the first No. 8 seed club to win in the playoffs – nevermind make it to the Championship. But last to outlast isn’t new for Gotham. They made it to the 2023 NWSL Championship when they finished in sixth place, the last seed in the playoffs until last year’s expansion to eight. It worked out that time. They won the 2023 NWSL Championship.

To get here, Gotham had to do the near-impossible – beat the Kansas City Current at CPKC Stadium, something that’s only happened once before. Against the odds, Gotham beat the Current, 2-1, thanks to a Katie Stengel goal in extra time. Jaedyn Shaw assisted the goal and scored the game’s opening goal.

She kept her scoring ways up in the semifinal. It was a scoreless battle between Gotham and the Orlando Pride. Just when it looked like they were doomed to another extra time, Rose Lavelle drew a foul, and Shaw took the free kick. As the game wound down, Shaw scored the game winning goal to send her team of just two months to the NWSL Championship. With two goals and an assist in her debut Gotham postseason, Shaw has joined an exclusive list of players to log at least three goal contributions in a single playoff run — and every team with such a player has gone on to lift the trophy.

The Spirit haven’t won a game this season when conceding first, something Gotham will want to keep in mind. Gotham will want to get the offense going early. Esther González made her first start since returning from injury against the Pride, but was kept mostly quiet. Gotham still managed to find a way to win, but getting González involved in scoring will give them yet another offensive weapon.

Midge Purce was the 2023 Championship MVP and has looked every bit the same, having found her groove in the wake of an injury. Rose Lavelle is keeping the midfield under control, and no one has played more playoff games than Emily Sonnett. The calm, veteran presence will help keep this gritty team grounded under pressure.

Gotham are betting on themselves, and it’s paying off in dividends. Will they be able to cash in on Saturday?

You're not going to want to miss this one. Watch the 2025 NWSL Championship presented by Google Pixel on November 22 at 8 p.m. ET CBS and Paramount+
