Former NWSL player Merritt Mathias has been out of the league for less than a year, and she has already found a new gig. In a partnership between Just Women’s Sports and Amazon Prime, Mathias is live from the league’s biggest games every Friday night.

As the NWSL gears up for return to play in the second half of the season, Mathias has her eye on a few players in particular. Which summer break signings will be the talk of the town? What veteran will surge on the way to the playoffs?

Mathias breaks down her top five players to watch for the rest of the season below.

"Mia Fishel's talents and goal scoring ability have been elusive in the NWSL – until now. The signing of the Chelsea forward by Laura Harvey and the Seattle Reign clearly indicates a strong desire to remain near the top of the table and make a playoff push. Time will only tell if the signing has the ability to unlock a potentially potent offense.”

“What do you get when you combine a bit of NWSL experience, speed, toughness, and a dash of ‘IDGAF?’ Michele Cooper in her third season of her professional career.

Being surrounded by a talented Kansas City roster has only made Cooper level up her game and it shows. From her on-ball decision making, cross selection, chance creation and goals scored, Michele Cooper is doubling-down on her potential and becoming a prolific forward in front of our eyes.”

“M.A. Vignola the byproduct of the evolution seen in the outside back position.

A position once dominated by scrappy, athletic forwards struggling to produce goals is now a position garnered by those with a large capacity to compete and connect on both sides of the ball. M.A comes alive higher up the pitch, going one-on-one against the opposition, but her ability to mitigate the play of any forward cannot be unstated. Her speed, quickness and explosive nature are perfectly complemented by her tenacity, skill, and vision. To put it simply, M.A. Vignola is a dawg.”

“Kenza Dali is one of the best – if not the best – midfielder in the NWSL. Currently, playing as a six (holding midfielder), Kenza is not flashy but she is consistently very, very good. As a six, she does all the things you want out of a holding center-mid: make the right pass, find the right pockets in the build, break up attacking transitions.

But her greatest gift is that she makes every player around her better. She is the anchor in the midfield that makes every bit of talent around her tick. You want to know why the San Diego Wave is residing at the top of the table, look no further than Kenza Dali.”

“The main fixture of Gotham FC's offense and the embodiment of a true footballer. What Esther González may lack in size, strength and speed is made up for in her technical ability and tactical understanding of the game. Esther is not only technically gifted with the ball at her feet but where she is brilliant is in her timing and movement in and around the box. It is no surprise she is currently leading the 2025 Golden Boot Race with 10 goals on the season.”
