Two big moments for any newly acquired player is their first appearance and their first goal. For Jaedyn Shaw, they were one in the same.

If we had a nickel…

Just days after Gotham FC acquired Shaw from the North Carolina Courage in a record intraleague trade, she made her debut in sky blue, and it didn’t take long for her to make herself known.

When Jaelin Howell sent a perfectly placed cross into the box, Shaw dove down, heading the ball into the lower left corner of the net. Her goal doubled Gotham’s lead over San Diego – Shaw’s former club.

It’s been a little more than three years since then 17-year-old Shaw scored her first NWSL goal in her very first game for the Wave. That was the start of a record run, including setting a new league record for regular season goals scored by a teenager. That record was broken in Week 20 this year by Olivia Moultrie.

At the beginning of 2025, the Wave traded Shaw to North Carolina, but it wasn’t as seamless a transition as her entry into the league. Though by the time of her trade, she had scored three goals and earned an assist, Shaw said it’s been a hard few months.

“It’s kind of hard to put in words. This year has been really difficult,” Shaw said, getting emotional in a postgame interview. “I’m so grateful for this team and all the opportunities I’ve gotten this year, regardless of my performance … I’m just extremely grateful for this moment.”

Despite having spent just days with her new club before hitting the pitch, Shaw was as ready as she could have been.

“Credit to the club. The coaches, they really took the time to make sure I felt welcome, to make sure I'm up to speed for this game in the short amount of time that I had with the team,” Shaw said. “Ultimately, it’s not hard to come into this team and feel welcome and be myself. Again, I’m really happy.”

Gotham is now undefeated in their last four games and sit in third place. Joining a club at this point in the season, as playoffs rapidly approach, can be daunting, but it seems Shaw is up for the challenge.

“This club’s incredible. I'm just so grateful to be a part of it. There’s more work to do, more games to get three points in,” Shaw said.

Let Shaw’s Gotham era begin. Her next match for her new team is this Sunday, September 21st at 8:30 PM ET on ESPN2 and ESPN+ against Bay FC.
