As the NWSL takes a break before the final week of the regular season, players from across the league have been representing their nations on the global stage. Here’s a quick roundup of where each team’s players are and what many of them have been up to.

Check out the full ist of NWSL players on international duty here.

Angel City FC teenagers have been busy this break, with Alyssa Thompson featuring in both games for the USWNT and scoring her first senior international goal against Iceland. In the U-17 Women’s World Cup, Casey Phair converted a penalty in South Korea U-17’s first group stage match and Kennedy Fuller scored and earned an assist in the U.S. U-17’s quarterfinal victory against Nigeria. Meanwhile, Claire Emslie also started for Scotland in their EURO 2025 qualifying match against Hungary and Rocky Rodríguez started and captained Costa Rica in their friendly versus Panama.

Mallory Swanson and Alyssa Naeher started for the USWNT in their first friendly against Iceland last Thursday, with Swanson celebrating her 100th appearance for the USWNT in Nashville before their second friendly on Sunday. Ludmila started for Brazil in their friendly versus Colombia and Natalia Kuikka started for Finland in their 1-0 EURO 2025 qualification victory.

Tarciane scored for Brazil in their 1-1 friendly draw with Colombia and Bárbara Olivieri started for Venezuela for both of their friendlies and assisted in their first against Thailand. Dash defender Sarah Puntigam captained Austria during their EURO 2025 qualification match, a 3-0 victory, and Ramona Bachmann started for Switzerland.

Stine Ballisager Pedersen started and captained Denmark in their 5-0 friendly victory against South Africa.

All of Gotham’s U.S. players featured for the USWNT, with Yazmeen Ryan making her international debut in their first friendly against Iceland and Lynn Williams scoring the game-winner in the second. Ann-Katrin Berger defended the net for Germany successfully against a late-surging England and Jess Carter started for the Lionesses. The match ended 4-3 in favor of Germany.

North Carolina’s goalkeeper, Casey Murphy, got the start in the USWNT’s second friendly against Iceland, a 3-1 victory in favor of the Olympic champions where Murphy made 2 critical saves.

Angelina captained Brazil in their friendly draw against Colombia and derender Emily Sams made her international debut as a starter for the USWNT Sunday. Sams was a member of the 2024 Olympic gold medal-winning team but did not make an appearance in France.

Mackenzie Arnold has been Australia’s regular starting goalkeeper this international break. Marie Müller scored for Germany U-23 team and Marissa Sheva scored for Ireland, her first international, in their 6-0 EURO 2025 qualification victory against Georgia. Isabella Obaze scored her first goal for Denmark off a soaring header delivered by a corner, in their 5-0 friendly victory against South Africa.

Emma Sears made history when she scored and earned an assist in her debut against Iceland, the first USWNT player to do so since Christen Press in 2013.

Kimmi Ascanio and Melanie Barcenas have been exemplary for the U.S. U-17 YNT, both finding the back of the net in their U-17 Women’s World Cup matches. They are tied as lead goal scorer for their team. Kaitlyn Torpey scored for Australia in their 1-1 friendly versus Switzerland. Jaedyn Shaw scored for the USWNT, and Kyra Carusa scored for Ireland against Georgia in their EURO 2025 qualification victory. Kailen Sheridan, Delphine Cascarino, María Sánchez started for Mexico, Naomi Girma for the USWNT, and in Sweden’s EURO Qualifier against Luxembourg, Hanna Lundkvist started as well.

Ainsley McCammon has started all of the U.S. U-17’s matches during their U-17 Women’s World Cup campaign. Nérilia Mondésir captained Haiti in their friendly against Chinese Taipei and scored to help deliver them a win. Across the pond, Angharad James-Turner captained Wales and Jess Fishlock came off the bench and assisted a goal in their EURO 2025 qualification loss against Slovakia.

Mina Tanaka started and scored for Japan in their friendly victory against South Korea and Mandy Haught received her first call-up to the USWNT as an injury replacement.

Hal Hershfelt, an alternate of the 2024 Olympic gold medal-winning team but did not make an appearance in France, debuted for the USWNT and Casey Krueger started in the USWNT’s matches against Iceland.
