Esther González netted her second brace in as many games to lead Gotham FC to a 4-0 rout versus Angel City FC, their first game in a two-leg away trip to the West Coast that will see them travel to Portland for a midweek matchup on Tuesday. With four goals in five matches, Esther is now tied with Ashley Hatch in the Golden Boot race.

In the most-played matchup in league history, Seattle Reign FC earned a 1-0 win over the Portland Thorns in the 42nd edition of the Cascadia Rivalry. With the result, the all-time series is now even: 16 wins each and 10 draws. Rookie Maddie Dahlien’s fourth-minute goal was all Seattle needed to grab bragging rights and tighten things up in the all-time tally.

San Diego Wave FC’s French trio put on a show in Louisville, powering the club to a 4-1 win. Kenza Dali opened the scoring with a pinpoint free kick and Delphine Cascarino assisted Melanie Barcenas—her third assist of the season to lead the league—and scored a brace while Perle Morroni assisted her fellow countrywoman’s first goal. It was San Diego’s first four-goal outing since 2022, and their first ever on the road.

The Orlando Pride’s historic 17-game regular season home unbeaten streak came to an end on Saturday night with a 1-0 loss to the Washington Spirit, a team that has become all too familiar to them in high-stakes moments. After defeating the Spirit last year to lift the NWSL Shield and then again in the NWSL Championship, Orlando fell to them in the 2025 Challenge Cup this March. This is now their first regular season loss at home since August 2023. Gift Monday scored the game-winner in her first NWSL start, while Aubrey Kingsbury delivered a six-save performance and her 40th career shutout.

The Kansas City Current extended their blazing start to 2025 with a 2-0 win over the Houston Dash, securing their ninth straight regular season victory—setting a new NWSL record. Lo’eau LaBonta converted yet another penalty and Kayla Sharples added her first goal with the club as the Current improved to a perfect 5-0-0 and claimed first place in the standings after Orlando lost earlier in the day.

Honorable mentions go to Ally Sentnor’s late stoppage-time penalty, the second-latest game-winning goal in NWSL history. The sophomore forward and 2024 U.S. Young Female Player of the Year calmly converted from the spot in the final seconds to seal a 1-0 victory over Chicago and give the Royals a much-needed win.
