NEW YORK (April 4, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, for the month of March by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

GK – Lorena (KC): The 2024 Olympic silver medalist made her debut with the Current, Lorena notched a 0.33 goals against average and eight saves throughout March.

D – Kerry Abello (ORL): Abello appeared in every minute of play for the Pride this month, registering eight tackles.

D – Jordyn Bugg (SEA): Anchoring the Seattle backline, Bugg scored the first goal of her professional career to help her club to a 2-1 win over North Carolina in Week 2.

D – Alana Cook (KC): Cook recorded five tackles and three interceptions for a Kansas City defense that allowed just one goal throughout March.

D – Ryan Williams (NC): Williams recorded seven tackles and two interceptions in three matches for the Courage.

M – Gia Corley (SD): In her first NWSL season, Corley became just the sixth player in league history to record a goal in their first two appearances.

M – Debinha (KC): Debinha scored a goal in two of the Current’s three matches in March, boosting her position on the NWSL's overall goal-scoring leaderboard across all competitions to fourth all-time.

M – Lo’eau LaBonta (KC): LaBonta enjoyed a productive month in the Kansas City midfield, scoring a game-winner against Washington and completing 80 percent of passes.

F – Barbra Banda (ORL): Banda began her second season in the league with a bang, scoring a brace in the Pride’s 6-0 rout of Chicago in Week 1.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): This month’s Player of the Month, presented by EA SPORTS, Chawinga’s three-goal performance extends her scoring streak to eight straight regular season contests, tying her own league record set in 2024.

F – Ashley Hatch (WAS): Hatch scored three goals in March, including a game-winner against Houston and a brace in Week 3.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league consistently, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of March are based on performances during NWSL regular season matches.
