As we enter the final stretch of the 2024 NWSL season, this weekend's matches are sure to be exciting with the return of Olympic stars and the debut of exciting new international talent. Here’s what fans have to look forward to!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Friday, August 23

Matchup: Houston Dash vs Orlando Pride - 8:00 PM

Where to watch: Prime Video

"We're picking up right where we left off," Orlando Pride defender Emily Sams stated confidently in a pre-match press conference. If her words hold true, the second half of the NWSL season could very well be the Orlando Pride's for the taking. Undefeated so far and with one of their two matchups against the 2nd place Kansas City Current—whose only defeat this season came at the hands of the Pride—already in the bag, Orlando is looking stronger than ever. They've also bolstered their defense by adding Carson Pickett to their backline. On the other hand, the Houston Dash, currently sitting 12th in the standings, have a steep climb ahead. However, a positive result this weekend could be just what they need to turn their season around and reenter the playoff race.

Matchup: Utah Royals FC vs Bay FC - 9:30 PM

Where to watch: NWSL+

Bay FC returns from the NWSL break in 8th place, but their road ahead is challenging, with matches against Gotham FC and Orlando Pride still on the horizon. Utah, meanwhile, has bolstered their roster with international stars Cloé Lacasse, Mina Tanaka, and Claudia Zornoza, who recently featured in the club’s international friendly against Crystal Palace. Keep an eye out for Bay FC’s Maddie Moreau, who had a breakout performance during the Summer Cup and is surely motivated to continue to compete for a starting spot.

Saturday, August 24

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs Portland Thorns - 2:30 PM

Where to watch: CBS, Paramount+

Gotham FC, riding the momentum of four consecutive clean sheets during Summer Cup and with their USWNT stars back in the fold, hosts the Portland Thorns in the first game of Saturday. Portland, with a potent attack led by Olympic Champion Sophia Smith, will look to break Gotham’s defensive resilience. Meanwhile, Lynn Williams, with an impressive 13 goals against Portland in all competitions, will be Gotham’s key threat.

Matchup: San Diego Wave FC vs Angel City FC - 4:30 PM

Where to watch: CBS, Paramount+

San Diego Wave hosts Southern California rivals Angel City in a high-stakes Saturday afternoon clash, with both teams eager to kickstart their final push in the regular season. San Diego is desperate to snap a winless streak that stretches back to May, knowing a victory could be the spark they need. However, they face a formidable Angel City side, energized by Claire Emslie's red-hot form and the much-anticipated return of Christen Press, making this a tough challenge for the home team.

Matchup: Racing Louisville FC vs Chicago Red Stars - 7:30 PM

Where to watch: ION

In the final match of the day, Racing Louisville hosts the Chicago Red Stars, now bolstered by the return of Mal Swanson, who has already netted seven goals this season and is fresh off of scoring the game-winning goal in the USWNT’s Olympic gold medal match. Chicago, with a strong track record of scoring on the road this season, looks to continue that form with the addition of Olympic break signings, Brazilian forward Ludmila and Canadian midfielder Julia Grosso. However, they’ll face a tough opponent in Racing Louisville, a team that has dominated this fixture, winning four of the last five meetings while conceding just one goal. Louisville has also strengthened during the break, most notably with the acquisition of Bethany Balcer, one of the league’s top goal scorers, who will surely be an aerial target for her teammates on Saturday.

Sunday, August 25

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs Kansas City Current - 12:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN

Washington Spirit hosts Kansas City Current in a high-stakes match this Sunday, with both teams fresh off of playing international friendlies. The Spirit were without their Olympic stars in their international friendly but with their full squad available this weekend, they’ll surely be giving the Current a challenge. Leicy Santos played in her first international match with the Spirit, but looks to make her NWSL debut this weekend.

Matchup: Seattle Reign vs North Carolina Courage - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ESPN2, ESPN+, ESPN Deportes

In the final matchup of the weekend, the Seattle Reign FC host a North Carolina Courage that is riding a strong form, having won their last three regular-season games. North Carolina's recent performances have been marked by dramatic late goals, including a notable finish from Riley Jackson and Landy Mertz in the NWSL x Liga MX Femenil Summer Cup. Meanwhile, the Reign have just two wins this season but have made multiple big signings during the break that show they’re very serious about changing their fortunes. North Carolina previously defeated Seattle 1-0 in their April encounter and has shut out the Reign in eight of their 16 all-time meetings. The Seattle Reign will also be retiring Megan Rapinoe’s #15 jersey in a special pre-match ceremony.
