Heading into Week 21 of the regular season, 11 NWSL clubs remain in contention for a spot in the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light. This week’sslate of games features another six matchups with playoff and seed-clinching implications. With the current top half of the table facing off against one another this week, the NWSL standings could see a major shakeup ahead of the final week of the regular season and the league’s first-ever Decision Day.

Heading into Week 21 of the regular season, 11 NWSL clubs remain in contention for a spot in the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light. This week’s slate of games features another six matchups with playoff and seed-clinching implications. With the current top half of the table facing off against one another this week, the NWSL standings could see a major shakeup ahead of the final week of the regular season and the league’s first-ever Decision Day.San Diego became the first team to clinch last week, and now looks to lock up the 2023 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, as well as home field advantage in the playoffs. For more information on the NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light, including playoff format, schedule and tiebreakers, click here. For ways to watch, click here.

San Diego Wave FC (33 points, 10-7-3) - Clinched playoff spot

Clinches a top 2 seed/bye with:

A win OR

A draw + NJ/NY loss

Portland Thorns FC (32 points, 10-9-5)

Clinches a top 2 seed/bye with:

A win + NCC draw/loss

Clinches a playoff spot with:

A win/draw OR

NCC draw/loss OR

HOU draw/loss

NJ/NY Gotham FC (30 points, 8-6-6)

Clinches a playoff spot with:

A win OR

A draw + NCC draw/loss + HOU/LA draw

North Carolina Courage (29 points, 8-7-5)

Clinches a playoff spot with:

A win + HOU draw/loss

The 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, will be played at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California, on Saturday, November 11 as the league’s marquee event heads west for the first time since 2018. Kickoff is slated for 5 p.m. PT/8 p.m. ET and tickets for the match are available here. The 2023 Ally NWSL Championship will broadcast in primetime on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+ and will be available internationally on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.
