Here’s what fans have to look forward to this weekend!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch here.

Friday, March 29

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. Chicago Red Stars - 7:00 PM ET Where to Watch: NWSL+

Few teams in the league are having a hotter start to the season than the Chicago Red Stars. They started with a 2-0 victory in Utah and last weekend, came away with a statement-making 2-1 win against Reign FC in front of their fans in Chicago. They’ll look to keep the party going as they travel to Orlando this Friday.

But getting points from Orlando might be tough. The Pride are a gritty team, with a Brazilian contingent who have showed up for them this season so far. Will Marta and Orlando defend their home once again, or will Chicago come away with a third win of the season?

Check out Orlando Pride’s full schedule here.

Matchup: San Diego Wave vs. Seattle Reign FC - 10:00 PM ET Where to Watch: Prime Video

San Diego had a disappointing home opener last weekend, losing to the Kansas City Current 1-2. Reign FC also did not have the results they hoped for last weekend, losing to Chicago on the road. Both teams will be looking for some points this weekend, as the two teams face off for the first time since the semifinals last year that saw Reign FC advance to the Championship. The Wave have never beaten Seattle, however, so history could be in the making this Friday as San Diego looks to give their home crowd a night to remember.

Check out San Diego Wave’s full schedule here.

Saturday, March 30

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. Angel City FC - 3:30 PM ET Where to Watch: ESPN, ESPN+

The Chicago Red Stars are in incredible form this season but one team that might be just as in form is Kansas City. A win at home followed up by a huge win in San Diego has undoubtedly left the Current feeling confident and ready for anything. So it stands to reason, then, that they should be ready for a team that has been on the struggle bus this season: Angel City FC. Angel City has a few key players on their injury list, but that didn’t stop them last season from earning a spot in the playoffs. This season, a loss and a tie (that felt like a loss) has sent head coach Becki Tweed back to the drawing board but one thing that’s working in their favor this Saturday: the Los Angeles-based club has never lost to the Current in all their matchups.

Check out the Kansas City Current’s full schedule here.

Matchup: North Carolina Courage vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 7:00 PM ET Where to Watch: NWSL+

The Courage and Gotham FC faced off five times last season–twice during the season, twice in the Challenge Cup, and once in the playoffs. Gotham FC won three of those matches and tied the Courage twice. Both squads were very active in the offseason, signing key players and playing in competitive pre-season friendlies. NWSL fans can expect a quality matchup this weekend, as the Courage return home after a loss on the road and Gotham FC play their second away match of the season after having won three points in Portland.

Check out North Carolina Courage full schedule here.

Matchup: Portland Thorns FC vs. Racing Louisville FC - 7:30 PM ET Where to Watch: ION

The last week has been sort of a mixed bag for Portland: new partnership with Capitol Records recording artist Fletcher, their first home opener loss in franchise history, and announced today, a new contract for their star forward, Sophia Smith. They’ll want to celebrate the victories, learn from the loss, and quickly turn their eyes to their next home match, this time against Racing Louisville FC.

Check out Houston Dash’s full schedule here.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Houston Dash - 10:00 PM ET Where to Watch: ION

It’s the moment many have been waiting for: the first home game of one of the league’s newest teams, Bay FC. Professional women’s soccer has been missing from the Bay Area for more than a decade now, and the new franchise will be looking to celebrate the moment with a victory. With a win, followed by a loss, head coach Albertin Montoya will have a lot of game footage to review by now and with the dynamic Asisat Oshoala leading the attack, Houston will have a tall order on Saturday evening. But one thing they can always rely on is their consistently reliable goalkeeper, Jane Campbell. Last weekend, Campbell made nine saves and shutout Louisville. Will she carry that form to the Bay Area, her old college stomping grounds?

Check out Bay FC’s full schedule here.

Sunday, March 31

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs. Utah Royals FC - 1:00 PM ET Where to Watch: NWSL+

Only one game today, and it’ll be a fun one: it’s Rookie FC vs. Rookie FC. Both teams saw a rookie (or two) score in their home matches last weekend, and both teams came away with a win. The only difference, however, is Utah has yet to travel this season. Has head coach Amy Rodriguez prepared her young squad for playing in new and hostile environments? One thing is for sure: Spirit forward Croix Bethune will be a player to mark this match. In their game against the Bay FC, she attempted five shots. Once she finds her stride and gets used to the pace of a professional match, her and Trinity Rodman together are going to be a problem for defenders all across the league.

Check out Washington Spirit full schedule here.
