With the2024 NWSL Draft presented by Ally just around the corner on January 12, a talented group of players has already registered for selection as they prepare to begin their professional careers. Players may register here until 11:59 p.m. ET on Monday, January 8.

With the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, just around the corner on January 12, a talented group of players has already registered for selection as they prepare to begin their professional careers. Players may register here until 11:59 p.m. ET on Monday, January 8.The 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, will take place on Friday, January 12, at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET during the United Soccer Coaches Convention at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California. The event is free and open to the public. Live coverage will be televised on ION from 8 to 10 p.m. ET. All rounds of the draft will be streamed on ION Plus. Viewers can find access to ION in their area or via streaming platform by visiting https://iontelevision.com/find-us. Fans tuning in to the NWSL Draft outside the U.S. can watch the entirety of the event on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com. See below for more on some of the top prospects heading into this year’s draft. A live tracker with the most up-to-date list of registered players is available here.

Maya Doms – Midfielder, Stanford

Fifth-year senior Maya Doms led Stanford to the 2023 NCAA championship game with goals in each of her last three games, including the game-winner against Nebraska in the semifinal. Doms led the Cardinal in scoring with 12 goals (second best in the Pac-12), while her 30 points and six assists were the second and third highest totals on her team, respectively. The Stanford team captain tallied both a goal and an assist in four separate matches this season, including a second-round victory in the NCAA Tournament, earning All-Tournament Team honors to go along with an All-Pac-12 First Team selection.

Bea Franklin – Midfielder, Arkansas

Fifth-year senior Bea Franklin excelled for the Razorbacks in 2023, starting all 22 games while recording career highs across the board with nine goals (including four game winners), nine assists, 54 shots and 25 shots on goal in 1,694 minutes played. Franklin was honored as the SEC’s Midfielder of the Year and Scholar-Athlete of the Year, and also earned All-America Second Team, All-SEC First Team and All-SEC Tournament Team honors. The Seattle native recorded a two-goal game in a win against Tennessee, two assists in a win against Ole Miss and recorded a goal and an assist in the same game twice this season.

Olivia Wade-Katoa – Midfielder, BYU

Olivia Wade-Katoa posted career highs across the board in her fifth season at BYU, posting 1,939 minutes, 12 goals (including six game-winners), eight assists, 32 points, 71 shots and 31 shots on goal in 26 matches. She earned All-America Third Team and All-Big 12 Second Team honors while leading BYU to the best overall record in the conference (20-3-3), including a 7-0-3 record in Big 12 play, the second-best in the conference. The highlight of Wade-Katoa's impressive season was her late game-winning goal against North Carolina in the NCAA quarterfinal.
