The USYWNT, featuring four rising NWSL stars advanced to the semifinals of the Under-17 Women's World Cup in the Dominican Republic for the second time since the inaugural tournament in 2008. The USA battle North Korea Wednesday, October 30 at 6 p.m. ET.

Quarterfinals: Making it out of the group stages of the Under-17 Women's World Cup, the US faced Nigeria and advanced to the semifinals after a 2-0 victory. Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller opened the scoring burying her penalty kick. Later on the midfielder notched the assist on San Diego Wave midfielder Kimmi Ascanio's goal. Kennedy Fuller and Melanie Barcenas are tied for the team lead in scoring with three goals each. Two of Fuller’s goals have come from the penalty spot.

The USA’s four professional players were once again in the starting lineup in Barcenas and Ascanio, Fuller and Ainsley McCammon, who captained the USA.

Matchday 3: The United States defeated South Korea 5-0 with Angel City FC forward Casey Phair was featured in the starting 11 for South Korea. The USYWNT featuring four rising stars saw a brace and an assist from San Diego Wave forward Melanie Barcenas and a goal form Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller. San Diego Wave midfielder Kimmi Ascanio registered a pair of assists.

Matchday 2: Saturday, October 19: The USYWNT defeated Colombia 2-0 winning their first World Cup match of the campaign. Angel City FC forward Kennedy Fuller buried her penalty kick giving the US the second tally of the match in the 58th minute of action. All four NWSL stars started the match in the second group stage battle.

Earlier in the day, Angel City FC forward Casey Phair and South Korea lost 5-0 to Spain with Phair featured in the starting eleven for the second straight match.

Matchday 1: Wednesday, October 16: The USYWNT lost 2-1 to Spain in the opening group stage round of the U-17 Women's World Cup. San Diego Wave forward Melanie Barcenas notched a goal in the 22nd minute to bring the score level for her first World Cup goal. Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller notched the assist. All four rising NWSL stars started the match for the red, white, and blue.

In the same Group as the United States, Angel City FC and South Korea forward Casey Phair buried her penalty kick in the 26th minute against Colombia in a 1-1 draw.

About the Rosters: Angel City FC midfielder Kennedy Fuller, San Diego Wave FC midfielders Melanie Barcenas and Kimmi Ascanio, and Seattle Reign FC’s midfielder Ainsley McCammon will be leading the way for the USA.

At the helm for the USYNT is former NWSL player and current U.S. head coach Katie Schoepfer who played four seasons with the Boston Breakers from 2013 to 2016, making 68 NWSL appearances and tallying seven goals. Schoepfer is the first former NWSL player to coach a U.S. U-17 World Cup team.

Angel City FC forward Casey Phair, having already made history as the youngest player to appear at the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup, will look to continue her already impressive international campaign as South Korea competes for its second U-17 Women's World Cup title.

About the Tournament: Five NWSL players were named to their countries youth national team rosters ahead of the 2024 Under-17 FIFA Women's World Cup taking place in the Dominican Republic from Wednesday, October 16 through Sunday, November 3. The U.S. U-17 Women’s Youth National Team will feature its first-ever roster to include professional NWSL players and its first to be coached by a former NWSL player. Four standout young talents from the league will take the field for the USA, while Angel City FC forward Casey Phair is set to represent South Korea on the world stage.
