With Wednesday’s matches in the rear view mirror, teams and fans turn to the weekend and its full lineup of fixtures. Here’s what you have to look forward to!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. Utah Royals FC - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime Video

Orlando Pride (8-0-5) is yet to be defeated this season but this Friday evening on Prime Video, they’re facing a squad motivated by a clean sheet and a massive victory – expansion team Utah Royals FC (2-10-1). The Pride have won five straight home games, however, making Orlando a difficult place to come away victorious if you’re an opposing team but with Utah forward Ally Sentnor finding her form (she’s contributed to five of her team’s seven goals this season), it could be anyone’s game.

Matchup: Houston Dash vs. San Diego Wave - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

This week hasn’t gone to plan for Casey Stoney’s squad (3-5-5) after a narrow defeat on the East Coast on Wednesday. They have the chance to turn things around in Houston on Saturday as they face the Dash (3-6-4), who just recently re-signed star goalkeeper Jane Campbell to a new contract through 2027 (with an option for 2028). Winless in six-straight matches, the Wave will be hungry for some much needed points before they dip too far in the standings.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Angel City FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

Saturday’s last match of the day is a NorCal versus SoCal rivalry match with Bay FC (4-9-0) hosting Angel City FC (4-6-3) at PayPal Park. Last time these two squads faced off, Bay FC came away with a narrow victory after Asisat Oshoala scored in the 17th minute. Both teams have four victories to their name going into Saturday but the season is far from over and three points this weekend could go a long way in contending for a playoff position. Keep an eye on Bay FC forward Racheal Kundananji, who has been involved in a team-high 43 shots this season. On the other side of the pitch, Sydney Leroux – who scored the game winner in her team’s barnburner of a match on Wednesday – is always a player to watch.

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Washington Spirit - 6 PM ET

Where to watch: ESPN2/ESPN Deportes

Currently, Washington Spirit (9-3-1) and Gotham FC (8-2-3) occupy third and fourth place in the standings, respectively. These two squads will face off on Sunday in a match with significant playoff implications. Both teams enter the weekend with recent victories, making it anyone’s game. Notably, Gotham FC boasts the league's best defense, having allowed the fewest goals, while Washington Spirit has the second-highest number of goals scored. Fans won’t want to miss this clash between the league's top defense and second-best offense, with all of the action taking place on ESPN!

Matchup: Portland Thorns FC vs. Kansas City Current - 4 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

NWSL fans will never forget the last time these two squads faced off when they opened the 2024 season in Kansas City and together, scored nine goals. The Current (8-0-5) came away victorious that match and since then, have yet to taste defeat. Portland (7-4-2), on the other hand, is still very much in the playoff race and with the third highest number of goals in the league and one of the most exuberant home crowds in the league, the standings could see a huge shake up after this weekend. Don’t miss all the action on NWSL+!

Matchup: North Carolina Courage vs. Chicago Red Stars - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

The Courage (5-7-1) are hosting the Red Stars (5-6-2) Sunday evening to close out the weekend and USWNT fans have a Mal Swanson versus Casey Murphy matchup to look forward to. North Carolina have had five-straight home clean sheets, a testament to Murphy and her backline’s defensive skills, but the Red Stars are a team that travels well, having avoided defeat in all but one of their away matches this season. It could be anyone’s game!

Matchup: Seattle Reign FC vs. Racing Louisville FC - 6:00 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

While the Courage and Red Stars are facing off in North Carolina, Seattle Reign FC (2-9-2) and Racing Louisville FC (3-4-6) will be doing the same on the other side of the country in Washington. These two teams have faced each other just six times in league history, with Seattle winning the first matchup and the subsequent five games ending in draws. This Sunday, Racing could finally secure a victory, as their squad has started to find its rhythm in the 2024 season. Players to watch are Emma Sears, Racing’s star rookie who contributed to a goal on Wednesday. On the other side of the pitch, keep an eye out for Ji So-Yun, who regularly creates havoc on her opponents’ backlines.
