NEW YORK (June 5, 2025) – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced roster-building assets for use by incoming expansion teams Boston Legacy FC and Denver NWSL ahead of their inaugural NWSL campaigns kicking off in 2026. As part of a broader update to player movement structures, the league also introduced intra-league loans, a new mechanism allowing NWSL players to be loaned to other teams within the league with player consent, effective immediately.

“With the introduction of free agency and the elimination of the NWSL Draft and Expansion Draft, it was important for us to establish alternative player acquisition assets that support incoming teams while maintaining competitive balance across the league,” said NWSL VP of Player Affairs Stephanie Lee. “The roster-building mechanisms announced today allow Boston Legacy FC and Denver NWSL to build competitive squads ahead of their inaugural seasons. At the same time, the introduction of intra-league loans – available to all teams – adds greater flexibility and opportunity for player development and strategic roster management league-wide.”

EXPANSION TEAM ROSTER-BUILDING ASSETS

Both Boston and Denver received the following roster-building assets:

Each team has access to $1,065,000 in allocation money to begin spending on July 1, 2025, with 50 percent of funds provided by the league. Teams will have until December 31, 2027, to use all funded allocation money. If the league salary cap increases, available allocation money will be increased pro rata.

Each team will spend against a $605,000 transfer fee threshold in 2026, but will have an additional $968,000 valid from January 1, 2025, through the conclusion of the 2026 secondary transfer window. Any transfer fees spent in excess of these amounts will incur a 25 percent charge towards the team’s salary cap.

From January 1, 2025 to the start of the 2025 secondary transfer window, the expansion teams will not be subject to a salary cap. Any players signed during this period must have a net zero salary cap impact and must be:

Loaned out with the loanee team picking up the full amount of salary and bonuses;

Qualify to be placed on SEI; or

The expansion team must use allocation money to cover the salary cap charge

Coinciding with the opening of the 2025 secondary transfer window, expansion teams may have a limited salary cap of $250,000 with the intent of signing college players or out-of-contract international players for the remainder of the calendar year.

Expansion teams are not required to meet the minimum roster size in 2025 but may not exceed the maximum roster size. Both Boston and Denver will be subject to the standard roster compliance dates in 2026.

INTRA-LEAGUE LOANS

Effective immediately, NWSL players may be loaned to other teams within the league with consent. All loans are subject to the following criteria:

All loans must be approved by the league and require the consent of the loaned player

Loaned players cannot be traded, transferred, or re-loaned to a third team.

Loans may occur anytime during the season prior to the close of the Secondary International Transfer Window but must meet FIFA’s loan duration requirements.

A team may:

Loan in max 3 players from any single team

Loan out max 3 players to any single team

Have no more than 12 players (combined in/out) on loan at any given time.

The loaning team will receive salary cap relief up to the amount covered by the receiving team. Teams may negotiate the applicable salary cap relief for the duration of the loan period, but the following conditions must be met:

The receiving team must pay at least the equivalent of the league’s minimum salary on a daily rate basis; and

The player must receive their full contracted salary for the duration of the loan.
