Portland showed out big time for the player who helped make “Soccer City” what it is. The jersey retirement and Hall of Fame induction ceremony for Christine Sinclair was nothing short of a celebration for No. 12.

Sinclair is the very first player to be inducted into the Ring of Honor and to have her kit retired for Portland. Who else could it be?

The club leaned into the celebration before the match even began. In a video posted to the Thorns social media, players like Sam Coffey, Olivia Moultrie, and Bella Bixby set the stage.

“Tonight we carry on Sincy’s legacy,” they said. “Now and forever.”

That legacy includes spending her entire 12-year NWSL career in Portland as a captain, three NWSL Championships, and two NWSL Shields. She still holds club records for most goals across all competitions (79), matches played (237), matches started (215), and minutes played (18,579).

And that’s just her NWSL career.

“When I played, I never set out for the records or recognition, only to give everything I had for the game I loved for this team and this city,” Sinclair said.

In her speech in front of more than 21,000 Portland faithful, Sinclair took the praise and deferred it to the teammates she played with along the way and to fans who packed the stands game after game.

“It doesn’t matter what they said,” Sinclair said of her introductions. “You guys are truly the heartbeat of this club and playing in front of you has been one of the greatest honors of my life.”

For the occasion, Sinclair was given a custom jacket that embodies her Thorns legacy all in one item of clothing. With her team accomplishments on the back, the names of her nieces embroidered above each pocket, a maple leaf for her home country, and of course, a not-suitable-for-print jab at Seattle, it is the most fitting gift for Sincy.

Sophia Wilson may have put it best after Sinclair’s last home game at Providence Park in 2024.

“Sinc has mentored me in so many ways. I don’t even think she knows it,” Wilson said, getting emotional. “I mean, she is Portland, and it’s not going to be the same.

“I’m not like dying,” Sinclair responded, laughing.

In fact, Sinclair closed out her speech with one final expression of gratitude for Rose City that shows the feeling is mutual.

“Thank you Portland," Sinclair said. “This city, this team, and all these fans, you’ll always be home.”

Once a Thorn, always a Thorn.
