As we enter Week 20 and the final push for playoffs, the action in the NWSL isn’t showing any signs of slowing down. Two teams—Gotham FC and Kansas City Current—are on the verge of clinching playoff spots, while five clubs remain in contention for the coveted NWSL Shield: Orlando Pride, Washington Spirit, Gotham FC, Kansas City Current, and North Carolina Courage. Will this weekend bring them closer to glory, or will their opponents throw a wrench in their plans, making the path to silverware even more challenging?

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. Washington Spirit – 8:00 PM ET How to watch: Prime Video

Fourth place Kansas City Current hosts second place Washington Spirit this Friday in a battle for much needed points. The Spirit enters the match riding high after a dominant 3-0 victory over Houston, led by an Ashley Hatch brace. Washington has also won five of its seven encounters with Kansas City, including a resounding 4-1 triumph last month. On the other hand, Kansas City boasts formidable home form, having netted 41 goals at CPKC Stadium in 2024, with Temwa Chawinga near unstoppable in front of her club’s fans. If the Current can secure victory, they secure a playoff spot. For the Spirit who have already clinched, results will go a long way in their quest for the NWSL Shield.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Orlando Pride – 10:30 PM ET How to watch: NWSL+

Bay FC takes on the formidable Orlando Pride in the second match on Friday evening, with both clubs in fine form. Orlando boasts an impressive defensive record, having kept clean sheets in their last four league games, and conceded only one goal in their last eight. The last time these two clubs faced off, Orlando secured a nervy 1-0 win, with a penalty from Adriana the difference maker. That was before Barbara Banda arrived in the U.S., however. Meanwhile, Bay FC is enjoying a three-game unbeaten streak (W2 D1), buoyed by Asisat Oshoala’s back-to-back goals. Keep an eye on Anna Moorhouse, who will be looking to extend her 2024 record-breaking clean sheet tally. With a victory, Orlando secures a top 4 spot and a guaranteed home quarterfinal berth.

Matchup: Racing Louisville FC vs. North Carolina Courage – 7:30 PM ET How to watch: ION

North Carolina has won all eight previous regular-season meetings against Racing Louisville FC, their opponents on Saturday. They also enter the game following a 1-1 result against a Bay FC that they out-possessed last weekend. Meanwhile, Racing Louisville is still riding the high of their first comeback win of the season, defeating Angel City 2-1 last weekend in front of a boisterous home crowd. Denise O’Sullivan’s playmaking could be pivotal for North Carolina in Louisville, while Racing looks to Janine Beckie and the momentum from last weekend to end their losing streak against the Courage.

Matchup: Houston Dash vs. Seattle Reign FC – 8:30 PM ET How to watch: NWSL+

Seattle Reign FC is flying into Texas this weekend for a road clash with the Houston Dash, with both teams carrying contrasting recent form. Seattle has won two consecutive comeback road matches, fueled by Ji So-Yun’s scoring heroics, putting her on the verge of joining Reign legends Megan Rapinoe and Kim Little in scoring in three straight road games. Meanwhile, Houston Dash is on a six-match losing streak. Jane Campbell's five saves last week brought her closer to the 100 saves in a season milestone, while Seattle’s defense will be aiming to keep Diana Ordóñez and her teammates out of the box.

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. San Diego Wave FC – 9:30 PM ET How to watch: ION

San Diego Wave and the Chicago Red Stars are in for a Saturday evening class this weekend with San Diego coming off a blazing start in their last match, where Delphine Cascarino set a league record for the fastest goal and assist combo, helping secure a win over Utah. Meanwhile, Chicago has struggled to find the net at home, being shut out in their last three matches. Ally Schlegel has been a bright spot for the Red Stars, scoring the game winner last weekend for the Red Stars in Portland where they haven’t won since 2013. Additionally, the Red Stars have kept clean sheets in their last two meetings against the Wave, making them the only team San Diego has failed to score against since July 2023.

Matchup: NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Utah Royals FC – 1:00 PM ETHow to watch: ESPN2, ESPN+, ESPN Deportes

Gotham FC faces the Utah Royals this weekend in a match for much-needed points if they want to stay in the fight for the NWSL Shield. Gotham’s defense has been stellar this season but the Royals have been dangerous from range, with Cloé Lacasse proving herself to be a player to watch going forward. This will be the first meeting between these teams since Utah’s return to the NWSL, and with Gotham FC chasing victory to secure a playoff spot, it’s surely a match to watch.

Matchup: Angel City FC vs. Portland Thorns FC – 10:00 PM ET How to watch: CBS Sports Network (CBSSN)

Angel City FC hosts the Portland Thorns on a Monday night high-stakes matchup with both teams desperate for results to turn around their recent poor form. Despite Portland's current struggles, they remain a formidable opponent especially if Sophia Smith is given the opportunity to get a good look on goal. However, Angel City comes in confident, unbeaten in four home games against Portland including a memorable 5-1 victory last October—Angel City’s largest-ever margin of victory. Sydney Leroux, a thorn in Portland’s side for years, will look to add to her six career goals against them, already scoring for five different teams in matchups against the Thorns.
