When the 2026 NWSL season kicks off, Boston and Denver will join the ranks of cities with a home team to support. While it’s only halfway through the current season, both expansion teams are already being welcomed into the fold.

Fans have waited eagerly to learn the names, colors, and crests of their new favorite teams, and on July 22, the 16th NWSL team introduced itself for the first time – Denver Summit FC.

In a fan-led naming process, Summit was the clear favorite.

The crest is a direct reflection of the beautiful Colorado horizon. A forest green and white palette make up the mountains, sitting under a warm red sky – a nod to those famous red rocks. With a bright yellow sun as the backdrop, it’s a reminder of the 300 days of sunshine a year natives claim as their Coloradoan right.

All together, the crest comes together as an ode to the city and state.

“We are pleased to unveil Denver Summit FC as our name and to share our crest and colors with Colorado and the world,” said Denver Summit FC President Jen Millet. “It was vital for us to name our club in collaboration with our community. Our crest, colors, and brand are representative of Denver and all of Colorado. It embraces our aspirational goals and pioneering spirit to build the best soccer club in the world.”

“We are excited to firmly place Denver Summit FC in Denver’s storied sports lexicon,” said Denver Summit FC Controlling Owner, Rob Cohen. “Coloradans are passionate about the outdoors, so it was always our vision that the crest should depict our natural surroundings. Our elevation offers us a distinct home field advantage, and our goal is to build a club that is always pursuing excellence on and off the field. Much like the picturesque Rocky Mountains, our charge is to stand apart while always reaching for new heights.”

The Denver club already has buy-in from city icons, like Peyton Manning, who came on as an investor in June.

To celebrate the start of a new chapter in the city’s rich sports history, Summit FC will host a Brand Launch Block Party at McGregor Square on July 26 at 2 p.m. MT. The free party will include music, food, drink, and exclusive merchandise. If you are interested in attending, please RSVP here. Entry will be first come, first serve.
