NEW YORK (January 24, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League announced an update regarding investigations into allegations of misconduct within Portland Thorns FC and the Washington Spirit organizations.

NEW YORK (January 24, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League announced an update regarding investigations into allegations of misconduct within Portland Thorns FC and the Washington Spirit organizations.

Portland Thorns FC

In early November 2022, Portland Thorns leadership reported to the NWSL player concerns about an incident in which assistant coach Sophie Clough made a player feel uncomfortable by kissing her neck at the team’s championship celebration in Washington, D.C. The league engaged a third-party attorney to investigate allegations of this inappropriate and unwanted physical contact with a player. During the investigation claims of bullying behavior by Clough were also raised. Following a thorough investigation, it was found that the claims of unwanted contact were substantiated in violation of league policy. Regarding the claims of bullying behavior, the third-party investigator found that the reports were unsubstantiated and Clough did not exceed the bounds of appropriate coaching. Additionally, in late November 2022, Dr. Breanne Brown, the Thorns’ team physician, reported concerns to the team’s general manager about player safety following events that took place during the 2022 NWSL playoffs which were, in turn, reported by Portland Thorns leadership to the league. The league engaged a third-party attorney to investigate these allegations. Dr. Brown reported that Portland’s athletic trainer, Pierre Soubrier, told her he had given two players a medication that contained codeine at the Thorns’ October 22, 2022 semifinal. Codeine is a controlled substance that requires a prescription and should only be administered by a physician. Dr. Brown also self-reported concerns about her own conduct related to the administration of controlled substances. Due to the imminent risk to player health and safety, the league placed Soubrier on paid administrative leave, effective December 7, 2022 pending the outcome of the league’s investigation by a third-party attorney. The investigator found that the concerns about Soubrier were substantiated. Soubrier was found to have administered the controlled substance to the players on multiple occasions without a prescription and physician supervision which is a violation of federal and state laws and league policy. Further, Soubrier administered the medication to one of the players without her informed consent. As self-reported by Dr. Brown, the investigator confirmed that on one occasion Dr. Brown provided Soubrier, upon his request, with access to a controlled substance to give to a Thorns’ player if needed. However, Dr. Brown became uncomfortable with this decision and promptly communicated to Soubrier that it should not be administered. The medication was not administered and was retrieved by Dr. Brown. Dr. Brown did not violate any federal or state law or league policy.

Washington Spirit

In August 2022, Washington Spirit leadership reported to the NWSL that players had raised concerns about verbal abuse and emotional misconduct during a training session involving former head coach Kris Ward and a player. The league engaged a third-party attorney to investigate. The investigator found that these allegations were substantiated. Ward was found to have engaged in overly aggressive behavior and harassment through negative racial stereotyping towards a player in violation of league policy. Based on the findings described above, the following corrective action steps have been taken:

Sophie Clough

The NWSL has suspended Clough from the league without pay immediately through the conclusion of the 2023 season. The Portland Thorns has terminated her employment. Clough will be eligible for future employment in the league at the Commissioner’s discretion provided that Clough participates in training related to discrimination, harassment and bullying, demonstrates a clear commitment to correcting behavior and acknowledges wrongdoing and accepts personal responsibility for inappropriate conduct.

Pierre Soubrier

The NWSL has suspended Soubrier from the league without pay immediately through the conclusion of the 2023 season. The league will also report Soubrier to the Oregon Board of Athletic Trainers (Oregon Board) and the Board of Certification (BOC). The Portland Thorns has terminated his employment. Subject to the ruling and requirements of the Oregon Board and BOC, Soubrier will be eligible for future employment in the league at the Commissioner’s discretion provided that he acknowledges wrongdoing and accepts personal responsibility for his conduct and demonstrates a sincere commitment to correcting his behavior.

Breanne Brown

Dr. Brown will be subject to increased oversight by and regular reporting to the NWSL Chief Medical Officer for three (3) months. At the conclusion of that 3-month period, NWSL Chief Medical Officer will provide an assessment to the Commissioner. Dr. Brown will also be required to review the American Medical Association Code of Ethics.

Kris Ward

Ward’s employment was previously terminated by the Washington Spirit. Ward is ineligible to work in the league in any capacity unless or until approved by the Commissioner. In order to be eligible for future employment in the NWSL, Ward must participate in mandatory training related to discrimination, harassment, bullying and racial bias, demonstrate a sincere commitment to correcting his behavior and acknowledge wrongdoing and accept personal responsibility for inappropriate conduct.

Reporting

The NWSL continues to strongly encourage anyone with information concerning discrimination, harassment, abuse, retaliation or bullying to immediately report their concerns to the league. Reports may be made through any of the following reporting channels or through any other club and league reporting mechanisms:

• To report a concern anonymously: TEXT the RealResponse Hotline at 872-259-NWSL (6975) • To report a concern without anonymity: EMAIL, CALL, OR WRITE the NWSL HR Manager at hroffice@nwslsoccer.com or (312) 549-8892 or 292 Madison Ave, Floor 3, New York, NY 10017 For additional reporting channels, please see the league’s full policy here.
