NEW YORK (October 10, 2023) –

As one of the tightest playoff races in NWSL history comes to a close, the National Women’s Soccer League and CBS Sports today announced expanded programming surrounding the league’s first-ever CarMax NWSL Decision Day, featuring all 12 teams in action on the final day of the 2023 regular season on Sunday, October 15. With nearly every club still in contention for a spot in the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light, CarMax NWSL Decision Day will determine this year’s complete playoff bracket.

NEW YORK (October 10, 2023) – As one of the tightest playoff races in NWSL history comes to a close, the National Women’s Soccer League and CBS Sports today announced expanded programming surrounding the league’s first-ever CarMax NWSL Decision Day, featuring all 12 teams in action on the final day of the 2023 regular season on Sunday, October 15. With nearly every club still in contention for a spot in the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Bud Light, CarMax NWSL Decision Day will determine this year’s complete playoff bracket.

All six CarMax NWSL Decision Day matches will stream live on Paramount+ with each match beginning at 5 p.m. ET. The Angel City FC-Portland Thorns FC match will also be simulcast on CBS Sports Golazo Network, the free 24-hour soccer streaming network.

As part of the league’s expanded match coverage, CBS Sports analyst and host Lisa Carlin will host a live whiparound show alongside Sunday’s matches that will cover goals and highlights from each contest, airing exclusively on CBS Sports Network at 5 p.m. ET.

“We’re looking forward to delivering what will surely be the most exciting weekend of this regular season to NWSL fans, and now with even more ways to watch,” said NWSL Senior Vice President of Broadcast Brian Gordon. “We appreciate the support from our partners at CBS Sports and CarMax as we continue to innovate coverage to ensure we are reaching our viewers in unique and meaningful ways. We are thrilled to bring all the action of the world’s most competitive women’s soccer league to screens next weekend as teams battle for a spot in the playoffs.”

ATTACKING THIRD, CBS Sports’ leading women’s soccer brand, will preview the 2023 regular season finale with an hour-long show kicking off at 4 p.m. ET on CBS Sports Golazo Network. Special guest Kealia Watt will join host Jenny Chiu to discuss the biggest storylines entering the crucial last day of the regular season.

Viewers tuning in outside of the United States can stream all CarMax NWSL Decision Day matches on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.

Among the slate of CarMax NWSL Decision Day matches, reigning NWSL Champion Portland Thorns FC aims to earn its third NWSL Shield as the club takes on playoff hopeful Angel City FC. Also on the west coast, San Diego Wave FC, the first club to clinch a playoff berth, will face Racing Louisville FC who looks to secure its first appearance in the tournament.

On the east coast, the 2019 NWSL Champion North Carolina Courage and the 2021 winner Washington Spirit face off at Audi Field as the two clubs continue their respective quests to regain the title.

The full slate of CarMax NWSL Decision Day matches is available here.

ABOUT THE NATIONAL WOMEN’S SOCCER LEAGUE The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, OL Reign, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

ABOUT CARMAX CarMax, the nation’s largest retailer of used autos, revolutionized the automotive retail industry by driving integrity, honesty and transparency in every interaction. The company offers a truly personalized experience with the option for customers to do as much, or as little, online and in-store as they want. During the fiscal year ended February 28, 2023, CarMax sold approximately 810,000 used vehicles and 590,000 wholesale vehicles at its auctions. In addition, CarMax Auto Finance originated nearly $9 billion in receivables during fiscal 2023, adding to its nearly $17 billion portfolio. CarMax has over 240 stores, more than 30,000 associates, and is proud to have been recognized for 19 consecutive years as one of the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For®. CarMax is committed to making a positive impact on people, communities and the environment. Learn more in the 2023 Responsibility Report. For more information, visit www.carmax.com.
