After last week with multiple five-goal games (and two seven-goal games!), it’s time for a coffee break. Actually, make it a double espresso. In Matchweek 20 we’ll see two members of “Triple Espresso,” Sophia Wilson and Trinity Rodman, fight it out to see which of their teams will end the weekend in second place. That and so much more await us this weekend. ​

Utah Royals vs. Boston Legacy - Friday, September 4 | 9:30 PM ET (NWSL+)

Bay FC vs. Kansas City Current - Friday, September 4 | 10:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Racing Louisville vs. Angel City FC - Saturday, September 5 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

Denver Summit vs. Gotham FC - Sunday, September 6 | 2:00 PM ET (CBS, Paramount+)

Chicago Stars vs. North Carolina Courage - Sunday, September 6 | 4:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Portland Thorns vs. Washington Spirit - Sunday, September 6 | 4:00 PM ET (CBS, Paramount+)

Orlando Pride vs. Houston Dash - Sunday, September 6 | 7:00 PM ET (Roku Channel)

Seattle Reign vs. San Diego Wave - Sunday, September 6 | 9:00 PM ET (ESPN2, ESPN app)

If Portland beats Washington, they could move as high as second place.

If North Carolina wins over Chicago and Portland loses to Washington, North Carolina will move up to fifth place.

If Kansas City beats Bay FC and North Carolina loses to Chicago, Kansas City will move into sixth place.

Why it matters: The standings have become slightly less chaotic, but that doesn’t mean there’s no drama. Only two points separate second place from fifth place. As playoffs grow closer, every team wants the chance to get home field advantage when they need it most. There are multiple teams still in contention for the last playoff spot, and with only a five-point gap separating Seattle (currently in the last slot) from 12th place, it’s still anybody’s guess as to who will end up making the postseason.

Two thirds of the Olympic gold medal-winning Triple Espresso will be squaring off when the Portland Thorns take on the Washington Spirit this weekend. Sophia Wilson leads an action-packed Portland attack including #2 overall assist leader Pietra Tordin. Trinity Rodman looks to continue her excellent run of form alongside new Spirit signings (and WAFCON stars) Mélissa Bethi and Monique Ngock.

Last week was huge for two players: Cloé Lacasse and Ashley Sanchez. Lacasse made her 10th assist of the season, tying her with Tobin Heath (2016) and Croix Bethune (2024) for the highest assist total in a single season. If she assists even one goal this weekend, she alone will hold the record at 11.

Current Golden Boot leader Sanchez became only the sixth person to score 15 or more goals in a single season. If she scores another goal this week, she’ll become one of only four players to score 16 in one season, and the first American to do so.

The Orlando Pride-Houston Dash derby, called the Space Race by fans due to both cities’ connections to the space program, is always an exciting match. It’s nearly an equal series, with the all-time head-to-head stats having Houston winning 11 matches, Orlando winning 10, and 3 draws between them. With both teams having 26 points, a victory for either side could mean getting the coveted last playoff spot at the end of the season. All systems go for an exciting match.
