NWSL Matchweek 3 had everything. Midweek mayhem? Record-breaking crowds? Top of the table matchup? Check, check, and check.

It was a historic weekend for the NWSL. Let’s get into everything that happened.

The Denver Summit smashed the NWSL attendance record with 63,004 people in the crowd for the inaugural home opener at Empower Field at Mile High Stadium.

Angel City FC is the only team left standing with a perfect record after beating the Houston Dash.

Washington’s Trinity Rodman became the youngest player to reach 100 regular season appearances on Wednesday. Gotham’s Rose Lavelle joined her in the 100 appearances club on Sunday night.

With Aïssata Traoré scoring Boston Legacy’s first goal in club history, every club now has at least one so far this season.

The second goal in a week for 18-year-old Melanie Barcenas was the 4,000th goal ever scored in NWSL history.

Portland’s Olivia Moultrie became the youngest player to reach 20 regular season goals with her second of the year.

Melanie Barcenas scored the NWSL’s 4,000th regular season goal.

Three teams left Matchweek 2 with perfect records, but only one left Matchweek 3 able to say the same. Angel City FC maintained a perfect start to the season with their third straight win despite a rocky start against their fellows at the top of the table. Just 10 minutes into the match, the Dash got on the board with Maggie Graham’s first of the year and her first since returning from SEI. Coming back in the second half, Angel City made the adjustments needed to match Houston, and it didn’t take long for that to pay off. Just two minutes into the second half, Sveindís Jónsdóttir continued her dominance with an equalizing goal – a beautiful left-foot rocket into the top corner of the net. Another two minutes after that, Riley Tiernan put home her first goal of the year to give Angel City the lead, cleaning up a ball sent in from Maiara Niehues that goalkeeper Jane Campbell got a hand on. Though just in her sophomore season, that was Tiernan’s fourth career game-winning goal. Jónsdóttir and Tiernan’s goals were the third fastest pair of second half goals in NWSL history and the result was the second time in club history Angel City has won a match they were trailing at halftime.

Boston Legacy’s second-ever match at home ended in defeat while the Utah Royals were able to leave Foxborough with their first three points of the year. After sitting out of Wednesday’s match due to a red card suspension, Tatumn Milazzo scored her second goal of the year to open things up for Utah. In Matchweek 2, Lara Prašnikar became the first Slovenian player to score in the NWSL, and on Saturday, she did it again to double Utah’s lead. Just when it looked like it would be three straight scoreless games to kick off the Boston Legacy’s inaugural campaign, the offense found its rhythm thanks to Amanda Gutierres coming off the bench in the second half. In the 84th minute, Gutierres found Aïssata Traoré, who was able to separate herself from Utah’s defenders for long enough to put it behind keeper Mia Justus. It was the first goal in Legacy history, a big box to check off in the club’s inaugural season, and the first NWSL goal scored by a player for Mali.

History was made in Denver on Saturday. With 63,004 people in the stands at Empower Field at Mile High Stadium, the Summit’s inaugural home opener broke the NWSL attendance record. The sun shone brightly as the Denver Summit hosted the Washington Spirit, and though the game ended in a scoreless draw, it was a win for everyone who has helped grow women’s soccer to get to this point.

While no team could crack the scoreboard, it wasn’t for a lack of trying. In a matter of days, Denver’s keeper Abby Smith shut out the reigning NWSL Champions and the runner-up for the last two years, preserving four points in Matchweek 3 for the expansion team. After a season opening loss and three straight draws, the Spirit are still looking for their first win of the season.

After dropping their first game of the season on Wednesday, the Thorns came back firing with a 2-0 win over the 2025 NWSL Shield winners. Olivia Moultrie became the youngest player in NWSL history to score 20 regular-season goals when she converted a second-half penalty kick to give the Thorns the lead. Reilyn Turner doubled the lead 10 minutes later for her first of the year after a brilliant long ball from Jayden Perry. The Thorns also welcomed back two veteran presences into their starting lineup. Sophia Wilson made her first start since returning from maternity leave, and keeper Mackenzie Arnold was back between the posts after playing in the Women’s Asian Cup for Australia. This is the third straight loss for a Kansas City side that dropped just four regular season games in 2025. The season is still young and the Current are still without star and playmaker Temwa Chawinga, but this is certainly not the start the Current were hoping for.

The home stretch has been good for the Reign, who went two-for-two in Matchweek 3, walking away with six points. Maddie Mercado scored in her second-straight game to open up the game in Seattle’s favor. It was an uncharacteristic blooper for Louisville keeper Jordyn Bloomer, who misread the bounce of the shot, allowing for the ball to slip between her hands and into the goal. Just before halftime, the Reign struck again, and this time it was Nerillia Mondesir who, after notching two assists in the season opener, scored her first goal of the season. Racing Louisville managed to avoid the shutout, thanks to Macy Blackburn’s first professional goal in stoppage-time, a header, but it was too late to mount a comeback.

After a 3-1 loss against Angel City last weekend, Bay bounced back big against North Carolina with three first-half goals to secure their first win on the road this season. Alex Pfeiffer opened up scoring with an assist from Sydney Collins for her second goal of the year. She would later earn her second assist of the season, helping Dorian Bailey find the back of the net for Bay’s third goal with a deft ball-in that found Bailey’s head. It was a first start, first goal match for English international Keira Barry, who gave Bay a two-goal lead with an assist from Cristiana Girelli. Despite the loss, there was good news for North Carolina: the return of Manaka Matsukubo. After winning the Women’s Asian Cup with her native Japan, Manaka returned to the Courage and got right back into the swing of things, scoring off the bench to get North Carolina a goal.

San Diego Wave FC vs. Chicago Stars FC (Wave win, 2-0)

It was a tale of two matchweeks for the Wave and Stars. Three games in a week can mean the momentum will keep rolling or exhaustion will set in. But for San Diego, they looked rested and ruthless, scoring five goals and only allowing one between both games. Rookie Lia Godfrey scored her second career goal in as many games to give the Wave the lead early in the second half. Teenager Melanie Barcenas doubled the lead for good measure in the 73rd minute for her second goal this week and the league’s 4000th regular season goal ever. Both Wave goals were assisted by Dudinha, who also scored in the Wave’s Wednesday win over the Thorns. The Stars, on the other hand, couldn’t get anything going on offense.

The Wave officially announced on Friday the signing of Catarina Macario, who will return to San Diego to play for her hometown club. She was welcomed warmly by the faithful at SnapDragon Stadium on Saturday night.

Gotham FC vs. Orlando Pride (0-0)

A battle between the 2024 and 2025 NWSL Champions rounded out the week in a scoreless stalemate. Gotham’s Rose Lavelle made her 100th regular season appearance, just days after Washington’s Trinity Rodman also joined the 100 Club. While Gotham’s defense was able to contain Barbra Banda, who was held scoreless for the first time this season, they were unable to get anything going offensively themselves. Gotham has now been held scoreless in their last three matches, scoring just one goal in the home opener against the Boston Legacy. Thanks to an all-star defense led by Emily Sonnett and anchored in net by Ann-Katrin Berger, Gotham has been able to skate by, losing just one game and only conceding two goals. Despite an identical record, the Pride have had more luck stringing together goals, thanks in large part to Banda’s return.
