The NWSL is back after summer break with an exciting slate of matches to kick off the second part of the season right. Budding rivalries, gutsy matchups, and goals galore are just some of the things on tap for this weekend. Here’s what to expect!

Friday, July 3

Washington Spirit vs. Houston Dash - 8 PM ET

How to watch: Victory+

Washington vs. Houston promises an exciting matchup with as many fireworks as the July 4 weekend itself. Coming off a strong run before the summer break, the Spirit will be looking to continue their positive momentum. Washington needs to be on top of their defensive game against the large number of attacking threats the Dash have. Players like Kat Rader, Maggie Graham, and Kate Faase have the ability to sneak by defenses easily, so the Spirit backline needs to stay ready.

The Dash also need to maintain defensive stability. The Spirit’s ability to wear defenses down over the course of a match is well-known, yet teams struggle to keep Washington at bay. If Houston can stay disciplined defensively, this gives more power to their attacking players to dash the hopes of the Spirit.

Denver Summit vs. Kansas City Current - 9:30 PM ET

How to watch: NWSL+

Denver vs. Kansas City will be a battle of the forward lines. Denver’s attacking trio of Melissa Kössler, Janine Sonis, and Tash Flint scored four goals each before the summer break. The secret to their success is strength in numbers. It’s difficult to defend against one of these players, let alone three.

Meanwhile, Kansas City’s attack is powered by the incandescent Temwa Chawinga. Despite missing the first month of matches due to injury, Chawinga is sitting second place in the Golden Boot race with seven goals. Kansas City needs to get Chawinga the ball as soon as they can to start asking questions of Denver’s defense as soon as possible.

Angel City vs. Orlando Pride - 10 PM ET

How to watch: Prime Video

The last time these two teams matched up, Orlando came out ahead 2-1 thanks to some epic late-match heroics from Haley McCutcheon. Will this edition add another chaotic chapter to the story?

Angel City’s mission this match is clear: stop Barbra Banda at all costs. Banda leads the league in goals, total shots, and shots on target. In short: Barbra Banda will shoot and there’s a high chance she’ll score. It’s up to Angel City to make sure it’s as difficult for her to do both as possible.

It’s crucial that Orlando not ignore its defense just because its offense is so solid. Angel City has the most set piece goals in the league. If Orlando loses focus for even one set piece, Angel City could be ready to pounce. Keeping the defense compact and disciplined is the most important aspect for the Pride this match.

Saturday, July 4

North Carolina Courage vs. Seattle Reign - 6:30 PM ET

How to watch: ION

North Carolina will be looking to continue their three-game winning streak from before the break, while Seattle will be looking to get back on track after a last-minute loss to the Washington Spirit. The Courage’s key to the match is simple: leverage the dynamic attacking trio of Ashley Sanchez, Manaka Matsukubo, and Evelyn Ijeh. Sanchez is in third place for the Golden Boot race, Manaka leads the league in assists, and Ijeh has scored in three games straight. They’re a formidable force that would make any defense scared.

Seven players are on Seattle’s season scoresheet, which means a goal can come from anywhere. The Reign can use this to their advantage by leaning into the chaos and surprising the Courage when they least expect it. This is to say nothing of Seattle stalwart Claudia Dickey, whose consistency in goal is always needed and much appreciated. Seattle could easily get the three points if they use their wide-ranging offense and a predictably great goalkeeper.

San Diego Wave vs. Gotham FC - 8:45 PM ET

How to watch: ION

The newly-minted 2026 NWSL Challenge Cup champions Gotham FC will be taking on top of the table San Diego Wave in what’s sure to be a clash of titans. Gotham’s defense is fantastic, leading the league in clean sheets (8) and lowest number of goals conceded per match (only 0.5). They are the only team to not concede any goals from set pieces this year. All this said, Gotham’s defense will be put to the ultimate test by the Wave. San Diego has the highest number of shots and shots on goal this season, meaning Gotham will not just have to keep the Wave at bay, but make big defensive plays inside the box to keep them from scoring.

San Diego will have to readjust their offensive strategy after their leading goalscorer Dudinha suffered injuries to her ACL and meniscus on international duty. Luckily for the Wave, they have plenty of options: Lia Godfrey, Trinity Byars, Mel Barcenas, Kimmi Ascanio… the list goes on. Now the question will be how to utilize those players together to beat Gotham’s defense.

Sunday, July 5

Boston Legacy vs. Bay FC - 12 PM ET

How to watch: ESPN, ESPN App

This should be an evenly fought match between two teams neck-and-neck in the standings. Both teams have new players from the summer transfer window. Boston acquired NWSL Rookie of the Year Lily Reale from Gotham FC, and Bay signed Kennedy Fuller from Angel City.

Boston’s goal this match should be to be more disciplined in the defense. Boston has the highest number of tackles per match, but with that comes the league-leading amount of both penalties conceded and yellow cards. The defensive workrate is there, but shouldn’t come at the cost of penalties or player warnings.

Bay isn’t far behind Boston in terms of player discipline, but their key to the match is to rely on goalkeeper Jordan Silkowitz. She has the third-highest number of saves this season and has come up big for Bay time and time again. Boston is an unpredictable team, and having a rock solid keeper is a great way to control the match in Bay’s favor.

Chicago Stars vs. Utah Royals - 5 PM ET

How to watch: CBS Sports

The Utah Royals could go to top of the table if they secure the win over Chicago. The electric duo of Mina Tanaka and Cloé Lacasse has proved to be the differencemaker for the Royals this year, scoring four goals a piece. Leaning into their dynamic, plus the energy of striker Kiana Palacios, will be crucial to get Utah a definitive win.

The Stars need to lean on their own star – Mallory Swanson. Officially back in the mix for club and country, Swanson’s ability to score goals is undeniable. If Chicago can use her to maximum effect, Utah may be forced to play from the back foot.

Portland Thorns vs. Racing Louisville - 7 PM ET

How to watch: Victory+

It’s been a tale of two seasons for Portland and Louisville. Though last in the standings, Racing Louisville upset the Portland Thorns in their first match this season. The Thorns sit in third place, but both teams have won one in their last five.

Although Portland has an impressive attacking line, their real key to this match is their defense. They’re in second place for most clean sheets kept (7) and are league leaders for most defensive clearances per game. Last match Louisville surprised the Thorns defense, so it’s essential for Portland to stay compact and pay attention.

Louisville needs to tap into the situational awareness all of their forwards showed in the last meeting between these two teams. Katie O’Kane’s first goal in that match was a result of not squandering a prime scoring opportunity, and Emma Sears’ goal was made possible by her pouncing on a defensive error. If O’Kane, Sears, and Sarah Weber can continue those sharp instincts, they can easily catch Portland in more mistakes.
