It’s only Week 3—destinies are far from sealed and the race for points is just getting started. But two teams have already set an early tone, and if you’ve been following the NWSL since at least 2024, their names won’t surprise you. The Orlando Pride and Kansas City Current remain perfect through two matches, each heading home this weekend with a chance to keep their momentum rolling. Still, the league remains wide open. With plenty of time for slow starters to shift gears and new records waiting to be written, Week 3 is teed up to deliver more of what NWSL fans have come to expect—action and goals! Here’s what to watch for.

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Prime Video

The Spirit are home again after a loss last weekend to an on-fire Kansas City Current. Veterans like Ashley Hatch and Aubrey Kingsbury will continue to be vital to their 2025 campaign alongside internationals Leicy Santos and Rebeca Bernal. 17-year-old Chloe Ricketts is on the brink of becoming just the fourth NWSL player to reach 1,000 minutes before turning 18. Bay FC enters the match unbeaten this season after a strong home win last weekend and momentum from Joelle Anderson’s goal contributions in back-to-back weeks and a Jordan Silkowitz clean sheet. After three close losses to Washington last year—including two comeback wins by the Spirit—the California club will be eager to flip the script in this rematch.

How to watch: NWSL+

Gotham FC is home again after a disappointing loss last weekend in their home opener. The match prior ended in a tie, so they’ll surely be looking for more than a point this match to catch up in the standings. A win would mark the club’s third straight over Houston, following a 2024 sweep. Look for Esther González to lead the line again—she scored the stoppage-time winner in their last meeting. Houston, meanwhile, is leaning into its revamped attack and rookie Maggie Graham, who has made league history by scoring off the bench in each of her first two NWSL appearances. This match also marks the first time Yazmeen Ryan and Delanie Sheehan will face their old club as opponents.

How to watch: ESPN / ESPN+

Orlando is eyeing history this weekend as it looks to match the longest unbeaten home run in NWSL history set by North Carolina Courage in 2022. Barbra Banda and Marta have led the way so far, with Banda scoring two goals in Week 1 and Marta converting a penalty in Week 2. The Wave, meanwhile, have shown early promise with Gia Corley already tallying two goals across her first two league matches—just the fifth player in NWSL history to do so. Goals by María Sánchez, Adrian Leon, and Corley last weekend were the difference makers. Another big performance from Kailen Sheridan could seal Orlando’s first defeat at home since San Diego dealt them a defeat at the end of 2023.

How to watch: ION

The Current are off to a flying start in 2025 with back-to-back multi-goal wins, and after winning on the road last weekend, are back in their house. Temwa Chawinga continues her incredible form with goals in seven straight games (the record is eight straight games, previously set by herself in 2024). Debinha and Vanessa DiBernardo, both integral to feeding the ball to Chawinga, are neck-and-neck for the title of assist leader for the Current, with Debinha two goals away from the 50 career goals mark. On the other side, Utah has shown offensive improvement since last season and brings a young, evolving squad to Kansas CIty. Claudia Zornoza’s set-piece threat, Bianca St-Georges’ dynamic wing play, Ally Sentnor’s off-the-ball movement, and Mina Tanaka’s precise finishing could pose challenges to Kansas City’s backline.

How to watch: ION

Portland earned a point in its home opener against Angel City after a hard loss in Kansas City the weekend prior and now looks to earn its first win of the season. Reilyn Turner has emerged as a key attacking piece in Sophia Wilson’s absence, and Olivia Moultrie remains a second-half scoring threat. For the Courage, Riley Jackson and Aline Gomes have made early impacts in midfield, becoming integral pieces to North Carolina’s crisp passing—completing over 80% of passes in both matches this year.

How to watch: CBSSN

Chicago Stars is home again after a difficult last two matches, both ending in defeat. Jameese Joseph has been a bright spot up top and teenage midfielder Micayla Johnson continues to gain minutes as the Stars build upon her for their future. Racing Louisville, meanwhile, has history on its side: the club has recorded four shutouts in six visits to Chicago and swept last year’s series. Emma Sears and Ary Borges anchor an attack that has shown increased efficiency in the final third this season, while Katie Lund sits just five saves away from 300 career stops. This one could come down to midfield control and a moment of brilliance from either side.

How to watch: CBSSN

Angel City has drawn its opening two matches and will try to avoid a third straight tie as it faces Seattle at home. Gisele Thompson has provided assists in back-to-back matches and her sister Alyssa Thompson remains a focal point in attack, if not by scoring then by drawing defenders. Seattle, on the other hand, is off to a hot start with four points through two games and will aim to build on its strong defensive structure. Jordyn Bugg's long-range stunner last weekend and Emeri Adames’ off-the-bench spark give the Reign plenty of energy headed into this battle in SoCal, with veteran Jess Fishlock remaining a midfield anchor.
