When Jaedyn Shaw puts together an outfit for match day, there’s one requirement, and it’s not tangible. It’s a feeling.

Does it make her feel like that girl?

“I don’t know how to explain it,” Shaw said. “When I wear an outfit, I have to wear it with a certain posture. I have to not let the outfit wear me. It translates on the field – that posture, that confidence, that swag. It translates to how I like to play.”

Shaw is as playful with her fashion as she is on the field, and while at the time of this interview she wasn’t sure what she would wear to arrive for Gotham FC’s match against the Boston Legacy FC the following day, she knew it was going to be worth talking about.

Ultimately, it was a bold, showstopping orange look that she settled on, her second outfit in celebration of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month (more on that later). Shaw arrived at Sports Illustrated Stadium on Saturday and ended up in Marie Claire for her that same outfit on the following Wednesday.

Having showed up dressed for the match she wanted to have, Shaw scored Gotham’s only goal in what would be a 1-1 draw with the Boston Legacy.

At 21, Shaw is the second youngest player in NWSL history to reach 20 regular season goals. She made her mark on impact at Gotham. After transferring from the North Carolina Courage, the 2022 U.S. Soccer Young Player of the Year scored in her Gotham debut. It was the beginning of something special, a not-so-underdog playoff run that ended with her first NWSL Championship win.

It was the perfect fit.

This coincides with her ever-rising presence in the U.S. Women’s National Team, where she’s scored 10 goals and assisted five more in her 36 caps. She’s also the very first Vietnamese-American player on the USWNT, something that’s not lost on her.

“Having the opportunity to be that role model for the generation after me is something that I also take very seriously,” Shaw said.

She’s aware that she has an opportunity to be someone she would have loved to look up to – and that means bringing all of herself to the table. There is no better example of that – her love for fashion, soccer, her Vietnamese heritage, her African American culture – coming together than her arrival to Sports Illustrated Stadium on May 9.

The stunninglook was LỰU ĐẠN, the Vietnamese-American designer behind Hung La. For accessories, she was decked out in pieces from INO Jewelry, which is based in New York but works with artisans in Thailand. It was an outfit she finalized with the help of her mom, Ann, who was in town for Mother's Day and the match.

“It’s always fun to have her in the stands,” Shaw said. “Out of habit, I look for where she is. I have to know where she is in the stands.”

But before Ann was in her seat, she was helping her daughter get game day ready. It was a way for them both to lean into their culture that was entirely new.

Shaw is still, admittedly, learning about the fashion industry. Last year for AANHPI Heritage Month with the Courage, Shaw veered more traditional, commissioning a custom áo dài made from her kit. This year, Shaw saw an opportunity to immerse herself in that world even more.

Safe to say, she’s turning heads.

“Oh, she ate,” Shaw’s USWNT teammate Trinity Rodman commented on Instagram.

As Shaw ups her fashion game, she sees the opportunity to showcase Asian and Asian-American designers.

“That is such a big part of Asian culture in America. Fashion, the designers, the different cuts,” Shaw said. “You can tell immediately when you look at a piece, ‘Oh, that's made by an Asian designer.’”

For the first match in May, Shaw chose a combination of Asian designers, and with more matches to come, who knows what fans will see Shaw step out in next. As much as it's just the beginning to her foray into fashion, her starpower on the pitch is only growing.

And in case there’s any doubt about it: Shaw is, in fact, that girl.
