TOP MOMENTS

The San Diego Wave kept their place atop the table with their fifth straight win, a club first.

Sophia Wilson scored her first goal back since returning from maternity leave.

The Washington Spirit put on a dominant show in a 4-0 win over the Kansas City Current that saw Trinity Rodman score her first of the season and Claudia Martínez the first Paraguayan goal in NWSL history.

Barbra Banda scored a brace in the Orlando Pride’s loss to Racing Louisville. She now leads the Golden Boot race.

The Utah Royals won their third consecutive game for the first time in club history.

If two weeks without the NWSL was too long, there’s some great news. You won’t have to wait until the weekend to see the No. 1 San Diego Wave and the No. 2 Portland Thorns go head-to-head or a 2025 playoff rematch in D.C. The NWSL is back in action on Wednesday, April 29, but let's get into everything that happened in Matchweek 5.

Racing Louisville won their first game of the season thanks to Lauren Milliet’s well-timed first career brace, which included the game winning goal. Kayla Fischer and Emma Sears earned the assists on the goals that sandwiched Sarah Weber’s third of the season.

Barbra Banda scored her career goals 25 and 26 in stoppage time, but the attempts to get something going were too late for the Orlando Pride. The good news, though, is that Banda’s brace put her atop the Golden Boot race.

The Washington Spirit played like they had something to prove, winning decisively over the Kansas City Current 4-0. Leicy Santos earned a brace for her second and third goals, and after Trinity Rodman earned the assist on Santos’s first goal, she turned around and got one of her own. Rodman celebrated her first goal of the year with an iconic ode to her boyfriend, tennis player Ben Shelton, and his “hang up the phone” celly.

It was a big night for the Spirit’s South American players. Santos became the first Colombian player to score a brace in the NWSL, and Claudia Martinez scored the fourth goal of the game, making her the first player from Paraguay to score in league history.

The Current found their form against Gotham in Matchweek 4, looking every part the team that steamrolled their way to the NWSL Shield in 2025, but things weren’t clicking against the Spirit. Temwa Chawinga making her 50th career appearance was a nice reminder that at the very least Kansas City’s playmaker is healthy and in the lineup. The Current are a different team when Chawinga isn’t in the lineup.

Bonus: The Spirit’s good luck charm, a fake coyote named Jose, seems to be working, and the team is all in.

Gotham earned their second win of the season and their first at home, securing the points with three first half goals. To start the day, Gotham forced an own goal. Rose Lavelle scored the second goal of the game, her first of the season, and rookie Jordynn Dudley earned her first pro assist. Getting Dudley involved in the offense helped Gotham further establish their flow. Esther González rounded out the scoring with her second goal of the season, converting a first-half stoppage-time PK to cement Gotham’s victory at home.

Sometimes it’s just not your day. Bay were without both Alex Pfeiffer and Kiera Barry, and their absences were felt. Keeper Jordan Silkowitz also took a hard hit from a teammate on the game's first goal, but ultimately stayed in the game and tied the league record for single-game saves (12). With midweek action this week, Bay FC have the advantage of a full week to rest up and recover while Gotham gets back to work against Chicago on Wednesday.

While the Boston Legacy are still looking for their first win, the Chicago Stars got back on track. Jordyn Huitema got on the board first for Chicago just 10 minutes into the game for second goal since joining the Stars. It was Huitema’s first game since March 22, when she scored in Chicago’s win over Kansas City. Nádia Gomes doubled the lead in the second half to secure Chicago’s second win of the season. The Stars get back to it on Wednesday night against Gotham.

North Carolina handed Houston their first loss at home of the season with a 1-0 win. Ashley Sanchez scored the game-winning goal for her fourth goal in five games. Manaka Matsukubo earned the assist, a beauty of a ball over the top. It’s her first of the year since returning from winning the Women’s Asia Cup with Japan.

But unfortunately for the Courage, Ally Schlegel was given a red card and will miss Wednesday’s game against the Boston Legacy.

The San Diego Wave maintained their place at the top of the table after coming back from a two-goal deficit to score three unanswered goals in the second half. iIt was the first time in club history the Wave have come back from a halftime deficit and is the club’s fifth-consecutive win.

The Summit opened up scoring with two first-half goals, the club’s first two home goals in club history. Melissa Kossler scored the Summit’s first goal and Tash Flint scored the second.

However, the Wave weren’t going to take that lying down. The Wave scored three goals after the half to come from behind. Lia Godfrey scored her fourth goal of the season to claim second place in the Golden Boot race. Kennedy Wesley scored the second goal just days after scoring for the USWNT in Denver. Dudinha then forced an own goal for the third, the game winner that would secure victory for the club and the NWSL’s eighth-ever second-half comeback win.

All is right in the NWSL. Sophia Wilson is back to scoring goals. Wilson scored Portland’s game-winning goal against Angel City FC in Sunday’s first game, her first since returning from maternity leave. Who was the last opponent Wilson scored on, you may be wondering? Well, it was Angel City. Before Wilson doubled the Thorns lead, Pietra Tordin opened things up late in the second half to break through a scoreless stalemate.

Angel City made an attempt at a comeback when Prisca Chilufya scored a stoppage time goal, her first of the season, but it was just too little too late. A bright spot for L.A.: Emily Sams assisted the goal, her first goal contribution since joining the club. Getting her veteran touch involved is only going to help.

Seattle Reign FC vs. Utah Royals FC (Royals win, 3-0)

The Utah Royals made a statement in Seattle with a three-goal first-half performance and clean sheet on the road to put the club in third place for the first time since 2019. It’s the biggest road win in club history and their first in Seattle.

The Royals were off to the races thanks to captain Paige Cronin, who made her first start of the season with a dramatic entrance – by scoring less than a minute into the match. Just minutes later, Narumi Miura doubled Utah’s lead with her first goal for the club. These two goals in less than 10 minutes are the fastest to open the game for Utah in club history. Cloé Lacasse added an insurance goal, her first goal of the season, before the end of the first half.

On the Seattle side, it was a tough day made tougher by a heartbreaking moment. Just days after announcing her intention to retire at the end of the season, Jess Fishlock went down with an injury and was taken off on a stretcher. Utah’s starting goalkeeper Mia Justus also exited the match early and was replaced by Mandy McGlynn. The second half ended without goals and the Royals are headed home for a well-deserved rest until their next match next weekend. The Reign, meanwhile, don’t play until Friday either and have plenty to work on on the training grounds.
