Following a record-breaking first season in the NWSL, Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga has claimed the 2024 NWSL Golden Boot, awarded to the league’s top scorer in the regular season. With 20 goals in 25 matches, the new league record holder for goals in a single season is the first player in NWSL history to hit the 20-goal mark.

The first Malawian to compete in the NWSL, Chawinga is also the first African-born player to claim the NWSL’s top scoring honor.

Chawinga kicked off her scoring tear early in the 2024 campaign, notching four goals, including a brace, in the opening two months of the season.

After reaching the Olympic break level on goals with Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda, Chawinga scored six goals in the first seven games following the NWSL’s return to play, tying Sam Kerr’s scoring record with three games to spare.

The following week against Bay FC, Chawinga scored against Bay FC to break the record before going on to grab another goal the following week against San Diego Wave FC to become the first player in NWSL history to hit the 20-goal mark.

In that stretch, the Malawi international became the first player to score against every opponent in a single regular season for seasons with 10+ teams in the NWSL.

Chawinga’s remarkable first campaign in the league includes three braces, a league-leading 26 goal contributions and three separate multi-game goal streaks.

The 2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, kick off Friday, November 8. Postseason matches will air across CBS, ESPN and Prime Video as well as a variety of international platforms for viewers tuning in outside the United States, including NWSL+. Further information regarding international distribution will be available in the coming weeks.

The 2024 NWSL Championship, set for Saturday, November 23, at 8 p.m. ET at CPKC Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, will air live on CBS and streaming on Paramount+. For more information and to buy tickets for the championship match, please click here.
