One last weekend to rule them all – before summer break and the NWSL hits pause, that is. Week 13 is the final chance for teams to head into the break on a high note, whether it’s extending win streaks, snapping some downward momentum, or climbing into playoff contention. Kansas City looks to stay perfect at home, Orlando chases a fourth straight win, and Portland aims to protect their fortress. From rising rookies to Golden Boot contenders, every match has a storyline. Here’s what’s on deck this weekend!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: NWSL+

Week 13 kicks off with a double header as Racing Louisville host an Orlando Pride team in electric form aiming for a fourth straight victory. Sitting second in the table with 25 points, the Pride continue to thrive on the attacking brilliance of Barbra Banda, whose eight goals are tied for second-most in the league behind Esther González. Racing Louisville, meanwhile, will look to bounce back after a 4-2 loss to Kansas City, leaning on the always clutch Emma Sears, who has six goals this season.

How to watch: Prime Video

First place Kansas City Current are home again with all the momentum on their side, riding a five-match winning streak and leading the league in goals scored and second in keeping goals out. With Temwa Chawinga tied with Banda for second in the Golden Boot race, the Current remain lethal in the final third. Angel City, by contrast, are coming off a devastating loss at home. Riley Tiernan continues to lead the scoring for the visitors – and for all rookies this season – with seven goals, but ACFC will need a standout team performance to halt Kansas City's perfect 5-0 home record this season.

How to watch: Paramount+, NWSL+, Paramount+

The Utah Royals return home anxious to grab some much needed points before the July summer break as they host a Seattle Reign side on the rise. Seattle are unbeaten in their last four road matches and sit sixth in the table after a 2-2 draw in Chicago so they’ll be a tough opponent to overcome. The last time these two dueled on the pitch, Utah claimed a 3-0 victory but this year, Seattle’s trio of Jordyn Bugg, Lynn Biyendolo, and Emeri Adames have grown into dangerous creators and could be the difference makers on Saturday.

How to watch: NWSL+

North Carolina Courage return home fresh off a 2-1 road win at Angel City thanks to the brilliant efforts of Cortnee Vine, Manaka Matsukubo, and Brianna Pinto. Matsukubo has emerged as a midfield engine for the Courage, leading the team with four goals and supporting her squad all over the field. Houston Dash, in contrast, are winless in their last four matches and still searching for consistent attacking rhythm. Both teams will be anxious to grab some points before the summer break, especially the Dash, as they head into the break 12th in the standings but with plenty of time to reverse course.

How to watch: ION

Gotham FC is back home Saturday night hoping to build on a dominant 3-0 road win over Utah that snapped a four-match winless run. Golden Boot leader Esther González now has nine goals this season, including four braces – tied for the league record. Bay FC, meanwhile, are coming off a narrow 1-0 loss to Orlando but have all the makings of a team that can make it back into the playoff picture. Gotham defeated Bay 5-1 in their last meeting in this stadium and will aim to snap a three-match home winless streak against a team they’ve had the upper hand on in all previous match ups.

How to watch: ION

The Thorns are home again as they continue their unbeaten run at Providence Park. Last weekend, they were clinical on all fronts, with Jessie Fleming assisting both Reilyn Turner and rookie Pietra Tordin and Bella Bixby making key saves to keep the clean sheet. The Stars, meanwhile, saw Ludmila score a two-minute first-half brace but ultimately gave up their lead late in the game and had to settle for a tie versus the Reign. It’s a painful way to give up points but it’s motivation for them to find results in the Pacific Northwest on Saturday night.

How to watch: CBSSN

The San Diego Wave came close to giving up points last weekend when they faced off against the Dash, but it wasn’t scoring that was the issue, it was keeping goals out. This weekend, in the lone Sunday game, they’ll host the Washington Spirit who, despite a shutout loss away last weekend, are generally very strong on the road this year. They’ll have their work cut out for them though if they want points. Containing the Wave’s French trio has been a tall task for just about everyone in the league. Close out your weekend right and tune in to a match up between the third and fourth place teams!
