NEW YORK (March 10, 2026) – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced the formation of the NWSL Health Advisory Council, a strategic engagement platform designed to shape the future of player health and wellbeing across the league.

The Council will bring together leading medical and health experts, researchers, innovators and elite athletes to guide the league’s holistic approach to player care. Its work will focus on advancing women’s health in sport across the full athlete pathway from youth participation to elite performance, strengthening mental and physical health resources, identifying opportunities for innovation and research, and elevating education and awareness through storytelling and public engagement.

“The health and wellbeing of our players is foundational to the strength and sustainability of our sport,” said NWSL VP of Sporting Sarah Gregorius. “The NWSL Health Advisory Council brings together leading expertise from across medicine, research and elite sport to help inform how we support players across every stage of their careers. Our goal is to continue building an environment where players and performance staffs have access to the best possible resources, knowledge and support to perform at their highest level.”

The Council will complement the clinical care, medical and research governance structures

already in place across the league. As part of its composition, CVS Health, who recently joined the NWSL as an Official Health and Wellness Partner of the league, will hold a dedicated seat. Represented by its Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Amy Compton-Phillips, MD, CVS Health will collaborate with other Council members and league leadership to advise, plan and help shape strategy around overall wellness initiatives, reinforcing a shared commitment to accessible, research-driven health resources for players.

Areas of focus for the Council’s inaugural year include advancing the league’s injury prevention and performance initiatives, implementing key research partnerships and further developing a comprehensive, holistic framework for women’s health and overall player wellbeing.

Inaugural NWSL Health Advisory Council members include:

Kathryn E. Ackerman, MD, MPH, FACSM, Director of the Women’s Health, Sports & Performance Institute and Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School

Rachel Buehler Van Hollebeke, MD, former U.S. Women’s National Team & NWSL player and Family Physician

Mariah Bullock, PhD; Clinical and Sport Psychologist; Former NWSL player

Cindy J. Chang, MD, FAMSSM, FACSM, NWSL Chief Medical Officer and Professor Emerita at University of California-San Francisco

Jo Clubb, Sports Science Consultant

Amy Compton-Phillips, MD, Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, CVS Health

Margie Davenport, PhD, Christenson Professor in Active Healthy Living at the University of Alberta

Sarah Gregorius, NWSL VP of Sporting

Council members will meet consistently throughout the year. In addition to formal meetings, members will serve as champions for women’s health in sport through educational opportunities, thought leadership and strategic collaborations.

NWSL Media Contact:

Maddy Schachte

Ph: 608-512-5179

Email: mschachte@nwslsoccer.com
