(via Gia Quilap/Orlando Pride)

It was an action-packed week 5 in the NWSL. Rivalries were renewed, streaks snapped, and attendance records continued.

But there were also puppies. Lots and lots of puppies.

Both the North Carolina Courage and Orlando Pride hosted themed games, where fans were welcome to bring their canine companions along to root for their teams.

Pups at the Pitch was back big time in Cary as more than 7,000 fans filled WakeMed Soccer Park on Saturday. While it didn’t break a dog record attendance that day, 121 makes for quite the pack.

The Courage also partnered with a local nonprofit, Freedom Ride Rescue, to have dogs up for adoption on site. All dog tickets proceeds are being donated to the organization. These dogs were the guests of honor pregame, walking out onto the pitch with the Courage.

Usually the pregame ‘fits are the star of the arrivals, but what’s a look without an accessory? One adorable puppy, Ziti, served as the team’s collective outfit accent.

Let’s just say Ziti goes with everything and everyone.

As cute as Pups at the Pitch is on its own, it’s also a chance for some of the dogs brought in by Freedom Ride Rescue to find their forever homes. The organization surprised the Courage players with puppies after training earlier this month, which led to a fantastic video on the team’s TikTok (see below).

Forward Hannah Betfort stares directly into the camera, “I love puppies,” with an unmatched intensity, and she wasn’t kidding. Betfort is now in the process of adopting a dog she met that day.

She wasn’t alone. A couple in the stands with their dog, Elfie, on Saturday was there in thanks to the Courage and Freedom Ride Rescue. They brought a sign that read, “Thank you NC Courage for leading me to my moms! Freedom Ride Rescue Alumni 2023.”

Further south, the Orlando Pride hosted their own dog-centric event: Pups of Pride. More than 9,000 fans showed out with about 400 dogs, according to an in-game pupdate from ION’s Duda Pavão.

The annual themed game invites Pride fans and their dogs to Inter&Co Stadium to enjoy a match. It was even a “bring-your-pup-to-work” day for some players. One such pup was Haley McCutchen’s corgi, Finny.

Dog days are the gift that keeps on giving to all. We’re already counting down the days until next year’s.
