The 2024 NWSL Playoffs presented by Google Pixel kicked off with a historic weekend. Top-seeded Orlando Pride claimed their first playoff win, defeating the Chicago Red Stars 4-1, while the Kansas City Current edged North Carolina Courage 1-0 in CPKC Stadium’s playoff debut. In Washington, the Spirit electrified a record Audi Field crowd with a 2-1 extra-time comeback over Bay FC, and Gotham FC capped the quarterfinals with a thrilling 2-1 extra-time victory against the Portland Thorns.

Orlando Pride 4, Chicago Red Stars 1

The top-seeded Orlando Pride made history Friday night, claiming their first-ever NWSL playoff victory with a commanding 4-1 triumph over the Chicago Red Stars in Orlando—a landmark win in what would be a weekend of firsts around the league. The Pride struck first when Haley McCutcheon scored off a corner in the 26th minute. Barbra Banda added two more goals in the first half, showcasing her speed and skill against the Chicago defense, becoming the first player ever to score a brace in an NWSL quarterfinal round. Marta capped off the Pride’s scoring from the penalty spot early in the second half after Banda was brought down in the box, netting her first playoff goal for the Pride.

Chicago responded in the 60th minute as Jameese Joseph capitalized on a defensive lapse to pull one back, but it wasn’t enough to challenge Orlando’s control. With the win, Orlando advances to host the semifinal matchup against the Kansas City Current on Sunday, November 17th at 3PM ET on ABC.

Kansas City Current 1, North Carolina Courage 0

The Kansas City Current marked a historic night at CPKC Stadium with a 1-0 win over the North Carolina Courage, securing their place in the NWSL semifinals. Forward Temwa Chawinga netted the game’s only goal in the eighth minute, capitalizing on a chaotic scramble in front of goal after a series of blocked shots. Her follow-up strike not only earned her first NWSL postseason goal but also marked the 100th goal in NWSL playoff history. With a resilient defensive showing and critical saves from goalkeeper Almuth Schult, the Current held off North Carolina’s attacks to record a shutout in their first-ever home playoff game.

With the win, Kansas City advances to face the Orlando Pride in next weekend’s semifinal in Orlando on Sunday, November 17th at 3PM ET on ABC.

Washington Spirit 2, Bay FC 1

In front of a record-setting East Coast crowd of 19,215 at Audi Field, the Washington Spirit secured a dramatic 2-1 extra-time victory over Bay FC to advance to their fifth NWSL semifinal. The Spirit found themselves trailing late in regulation after Bay FC’s Asisat Oshoala broke the deadlock in the 82nd minute. However, just four minutes later, centerback (but natural forward) Tara McKeown, fresh off an Iron Woman season, responded with a clutch equalizer, notching her first goal of the year and sending the Audi Field crowd into a frenzy. The Spirit continued to press, nearly grabbing a winner in stoppage time when Hal Hershfelt's shot ricocheted off the woodwork.

Extra time saw Washington take control, and in the 96th minute, Trinity Rodman’s cross deflected off Bay defender Caprice Dydasco, sealing the decisive own goal. With their relentless attack and inspired defense, the Spirit held off Bay FC's efforts in the final moments to clinch a semifinal berth. They will look to carry their winning home momentum forward as they head into the semifinals, where they’ll host Gotham FC on Saturday, November 16th at 12pm ET on CBS (also streaming on Paramount+).

Gotham FC 2, Portland Thorns FC 1

Gotham FC clinched a thrilling 2-1 extra-time victory over the Portland Thorns to advance to the NWSL Semifinals, marking their first-ever home playoff win. The tightly contested match saw Gotham break through in the 67th minute when defender Tierna Davidson netted her first goal for the club, capitalizing on a perfectly placed free kick from Rose Lavelle. However, Portland equalized just seven minutes later with Reilyn Turner’s header from a set-piece play, sending the match to extra time.

In the 97th minute, Gotham found the game-winner as Delanie Sheehan’s cross met Lavelle, who buried it to put Gotham ahead for good. The goal marked Lavelle’s second playoff score and the latest regulation playoff goal in NWSL history. With the victory, Gotham moves on to face the Washington Spirit in the semifinals in D.C. on Saturday, November 16th at 12pm ET on CBS (also streaming on Paramount+).

Saturday, November 16

Washington Spirit (2) vs. Gotham FC (3)

Time: 12pm ET

Location: Audi Field, Washington, D.C.

Broadcast: CBS (also streaming on Paramount+)

Sunday, November 17

Orlando Pride (1) vs. Kansas City Current (4)

Time: 3pm ET (coverage begins at 2:30 pm ET)

Location: Inter&Co Stadium, Orlando, FL

Broadcast: ABC
