NEW YORK (October 6, 2024) - With today’s 2-0 win against the Washington Spirit, the Orlando Pride clinched the 2024 NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, awarded to the club with the best record at the conclusion of the regular season, marking the first Shield victory in program history for the undefeated Pride. With a current regular season record of 17-0-6, Orlando enters the 2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, with the No. 1 overall seed.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Shield, CarMax has again committed their investment towards Shield bonuses, adding additional funds to each Orlando player’s earnings this year. Additionally, the league and global luxury jeweler Tiffany & Co. unveiled a reimagined trophy design for the NWSL Shield, presented by CarMax, as part of the continued overhaul of the league’s end-of-year awards. The new trophy was presented to the Pride following their title-clinching match on Sunday.

“Congratulations to the Orlando Pride for their incredible season,” said Sarah Lane, Chief Marketing Officer at CarMax. “CarMax is proud to support the league and its players as title sponsor of the NWSL Shield.”

With the No. 1 seed, Orlando has earned home field advantage for the opening round of the 2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, and will meet the No. 8 seed in the quarterfinals.

The postseason kicks off the weekend of November 8-10. This season’s expanded playoff features an eight-team quarterfinal ahead of the semifinal round taking place on November 15-17. Additional details around the NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, will be shared in the coming weeks.

The 2024 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel, kicks off at 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 23, at CPKC Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri. Tickets for the match are available here.

This year’s slate of postseason matches will air across CBS, ESPN/ABC and Prime Video, with the NWSL Championship airing live on the CBS Television Network and streaming on Paramount+.

CarMax joined the NWSL in July 2022 as the league’s first Official Auto Retailer and presenting sponsor of the NWSL Shield. In addition to their commitment to doubling the Shield bonus pool to support equitable pay for women athletes, CarMax is also assisting in the creation of activations to bolster excitement and engagement for fans at home and onsite at league events, including the 2024 NWSL Championship, presented Google Pixel.

ABOUT NATIONAL WOMEN’S SOCCER LEAGUE

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, OL Reign, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

ABOUT CARMAX

CarMax, the nation’s largest retailer of used autos, revolutionized the automotive retail industry by driving integrity, honesty and transparency in every interaction. The company offers a truly personalized experience with the option for customers to do as much, or as little, online and in-store as they want. During the fiscal year that ended February 29, 2024, CarMax sold approximately 770,000 used vehicles and 550,000 wholesale vehicles at its auctions. In addition, CarMax Auto Finance originated more than $8 billion in receivables during fiscal 2024, adding to its more than $17 billion portfolio. CarMax has more than 245 store locations, nearly 30,000 associates, and is proud to have been recognized for 20 consecutive years as one of the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For®. CarMax is committed to making a positive impact on people, communities and the environment. Learn more in the 2024 Responsibility Report. For more information, visit www.carmax.com.
