After an unforgettable NWSL Rivalry Week presented by Ally, filled with statement wins, record-breaking crowds and long-awaited debuts, the NWSL rolls right into another packed slate of matches. Sam Kerr took to the field for Gotham FC in Queens on Wednesday night, and this weekend another highly anticipated debut could be on deck as Lindsey Heaps (formerly Horan) is in line to make her first appearance for Denver Summit.

Kansas City Current vs. San Diego Wave - Friday, July 17 | 8:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Gotham FC vs. Seattle Reign - Saturday, July 18 | 12:00 PM ET (ABC, ESPN, ESPN App)

Denver Summit vs. Portland Thorns - Saturday, July 18 | 2:00 PM ET (CBS, Paramount+)

Bay FC vs. North Carolina Courage - Saturday, July 18 | 4:00 PM ET (CBS, Paramount+)

Chicago Stars vs. Angel City FC - Saturday, July 18 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

Racing Louisville vs. Houston Dash - Saturday, July 18 | 8:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Utah Royals vs. Orlando Pride - Saturday, July 18 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

Boston Legacy vs. Washington Spirit - Sunday, July 19 | 7:00 PM ET (Victory+)

San Diego leads the league with 28 points, but they’re only one point ahead of Washington, Portland, and now Gotham, who won their Wednesday night matchup. Washington and Gotham both have one game in hand, however, which means with one less game played than the league leader, they have more opportunity for points.

If Washington beats Boston, the Spirit move to 30 points and could take first place if Portland, San Diego, and Gotham drop points this weekend.

If San Diego wins against Kansas City, the Wave stay on top no matter the results of Washington, Portland, and Gotham’s matches.

With a win and both a Pride and Courage loss, Angel City could enter playoff contention.

Why it matters: With both San Diego and Portland losing last week and Washington losing on Wednesday night, the Shield race just got a lot more interesting. The top is now a four-horse race, with Kansas City and Utah all ready to pounce at 24 points a piece. This is one of the tightest battles for the Shield in recent memory.

SHAKE IT UP

Second, third, and fourth place are tied on points. Fifth through seventh place are all decided by three points or less. This weekend a large portion of the table could shift significantly.

NO PLACE LIKE HOME

Kansas City is one of two teams to go undefeated at home. In fact, they haven’t lost a regular season home game since July 6, 2024. This week they’ll face their toughest opponent yet at CPKC Stadium: San Diego, who have the most road wins this season.

ANGEL CITY TAKES FLIGHT

After defeating Orlando Pride and their SoCal rivals last weekend, a victory over the Chicago Stars this Saturday could put Angel City in playoff position. Maiara Niehues has scored for Los Angeles in their last four games and will certainly play a large role in their attack this weekend.

GOALS GALORE FOR DASH ROOKIES

Houston Dash has two out of five of the highest scoring rookies this year. Kat Rader leads the rookie race with five goals and Kate Faasse is ranked fifth with two goals. Despite having a rough few games, they showed at the beginning of the season the ability to hold up any offense and get on the board for results. Don’t count them out just yet.
