NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

BACK TO THE REGULAR SEASON

With the Group Stage wrapped up in the UKG NWSL Challenge Cup, the NWSL will play its first regular season matches since July 9 with a full slate of games this weekend. Each team will play seven more games, concluding the regular season on October 15 when all 12 teams will play on the same day. As the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup winds down, many familiar faces will also be returning to their NWSL clubs this week.

PLAYOFF PICTURE

As the playoff picture starts to take shape, just five points separate the first place North Carolina Courage and the sixth place San Diego Wave FC. The six teams are far from set in stone, as the difference between the sixth and twelfth best record is only six points, leaving the door open for teams to make a late push into the playoffs with seven regular season games left to play.

BATTLE AT THE TOP

The top two teams in the standings, North Carolina Courage and Portland Thorns FC, face off on Sunday. The clubs are only separated by one point, as North Carolina has 26 while Portland has 25. This will be an important matchup in determining playoff seeds, and recent history suggests that it will be a close contest, as the last battle between the two ended in a 3-3 draw on May 6. This will also be a rematch of the 2017 and 2018 NWSL Championships.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

IRONWOMAN WATCH

12 players have played in every minute of regular season action so far, including four ironwomen from the 2022 season. Racing Louisville FC goalkeeper Katie Lund, North Carolina Courage defender Kaleigh Kurtz, OL Reign goalkeeper Phallon Tullis-Joyce and Washington Spirit defender Sam Staab could all achieve the feat for the second year in a row. Orlando Pride rookie defender Emily Madril remains the only first-year to have appeared in every match this season. Houston Dash goalkeeper Jane Campbell, Angel City FC defender Sarah Gorden and goalkeeper DiDi Haracic, Racing Louisville FC defenders Abby Erceg and Carson Pickett and midfielder Lauren Milliet and San Diego Wave FC defender Kaleigh Riehl round out the list of potential ironwomen.

KEEPER MILESTONES

Washington Spirit goalkeeper Aubrey Kingsbury sits just one save away from history, as her next would make her just the sixth keeper to reach 400 career saves in the regular season. Kansas City Current keeper Adrianna Franch is the most recent to reach 400 saves. Kingsbury’s next shutout will also make her just the fifth keeper to reach 30. Houston Dash keeper Jane Campbell will likely be the next to reach both milestones, as she has 384 saves and 28 shutouts.

25 ASSISTS

Only five players have ever recorded 25 or more career assists in the regular season, but four players are within striking distance. OL Reign midfielder Jess Fishlock, Kansas City Current midfielder Vanessa DiBernardo and Portland Thorns midfielder/defender Crystall Dunn each have 24 career assists. Fishlock’s next assist would make her just the second player to record 25 with the same club. Chicago Red Stars forward Yuki Nagasato has 23 career assists, and she only needs one more to tie DiBernardo for the club record with 22.

GOAL TRACKER

The NWSL has had 22 players score 30 goals in their career, and two more could come soon. Orlando Pride forward Marta has 29, and OL Reign forward Bethany Balcer has 27. Both players have achieved these milestones with just one club. Current forward Kristen Hamilton is one goal away from reaching 25, while NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Midge Purce is two away from the same milestone. Purce’s next goal will be her 15th for Gotham FC, tying her with Kelley O’Hara for third most in club history.

WEEK 16 MATCH SCHEDULE

August 18, 2023

Kansas City Current vs. OL Reign | Children’s Mercy Park | 8 p.m. ET | Paramount+

August 19, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. Angel City FC | Lynn Family Stadium | 7:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Houston Dash vs. Washington Spirit | Shell Energy Stadium | 8:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ San Diego Wave FC vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | Snapdragon Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | Paramount+

August 20, 2023

Orlando Pride vs. Chicago Red Stars | Exploria Stadium | 7 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Portland Thorns FC vs. North Carolina Courage | Providence Park | 10:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+
