Last week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Awards featuring Goalkeeper of the Year. The NWSL Awards are voted upon in two rounds with fans having the opportunity to participate in the final round of the voting process.

Last week, the National Women’s Soccer League announced the finalists for the 2023 NWSL Awards featuring Goalkeeper of the Year. The NWSL Awards are voted upon in two rounds with fans having the opportunity to participate in the final round of the voting process.In the preliminary round of voting, players, owners, general managers, coaches and the media voted on individual awards to determine the finalists. The preliminary round used a weighted scale, broken down by players (50%), owners/GMs/coaches (25%) and media (25%). The final round of voting uses a weighted scale of players (40%), owners/GMs/coaches (25%), media (25%) and fans (10%). Below is a recap of notable statistics and performances from the Goalkeeper of the Year finalists during the 2023 NWSL regular season. For a full list of award finalists, including Most Valuable Player, Presented by Bud Light, Defender of the Year, Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally, and Coach of the Year, click here.

Jane Campbell – Houston Dash

Jane Campbell played every minute for the Dash in the 2023 regular season, becoming just the second keeper to record three ironwoman seasons, and the first to do so with one club. Campbell was dominant in 2023, recording a career-high 91 saves, the most in the league, and an 83.3 percent save percentage, the highest rate among keepers who played at least half the season. With a career-high eight shutouts this season, the Kennesaw, Georgia native became the fifth keeper to reach 30 regular-season clean sheets in her career. Campbell led the league with 0.83 goals against average, her first season finishing under 1.00. Houston’s star keeper allowed just 18 goals, the fewest in the league. Behind Campbell’s strong goalkeeping, the Dash were one goal away from tying the record for fewest goals allowed in a season (17).

Katie Lund – Racing Louisville FC

In her third NWSL season, Racing Louisville FC keeper Katie Lund recorded her second consecutive ironwoman season, tallying 88 saves in the process. Lund allowed just 24 goals, recording a career-best 1.09 goals against average while earning six clean sheets. Lund’s 78.6 percent save percentage was the fourth-best mark in the league for keepers who played at least half the season. Behind its star keeper, Racing Louisville finished with six wins for its best record since joining the NWSL in 2021.

Kailen Sheridan – San Diego Wave FC

Kailen Sheridan recorded a career-high nine clean sheets across 19 matches for San Diego Wave FC this season, becoming the sixth keeper to reach 30 career clean sheets. Notably, Sheridan recorded her ninth shutout of the season in San Diego’s victory on Decision Day, leading her club to its first ever NWSL Shield. The 2022 NWSL Goalkeeper of the Year recorded 0.95 goals against average, marking her third consecutive season with a GAA under 1.00. Award winners will be announced in the days surrounding the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, which is set to kick off Saturday, November 11 at 8 p.m. ET at Snapdragon Stadium in San Diego, California. The contest will air live on the CBS Television Network and stream on Paramount+ and internationally on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com.

In addition to the awards listed above, the winner of the third annual Nationwide Community Impact Award will be announced and honored at halftime of the Championship match. For more details on the Nationwide Community Impact Award, please click here. The league will also announce the Championship MVP, presented by Bud Light, during the on-field post-match presentation.

Tickets for the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, are available here.
