It’s week 22 and the stakes are sky-high as the NWSL playoff race continues to narrow. With only a few matches left, every point is crucial—some teams are on the brink of elimination while others are fighting for the few remaining playoff spots. At the top of the table, one club has a chance to clinch the newly redesigned NWSL Shield this weekend–Orlando Pride–adding even more excitement to an already dramatic slate of games. Expect high-energy battles, late-game heroics, and plenty of twists as the league’s best make their final push toward the playoffs.

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Match: Houston Dash vs. Chicago Red Stars - 8:00 PM EST How to watch: NWSL+

Houston Dash hosts the Chicago Red Stars in the weekend’s first match, and one that is pivotal for both teams. Chicago’s attack has been consistent on the road, scoring in 15 straight away matches, and they’ll look to continue that streak to keep their postseason hopes alive. Meanwhile, Houston’s challenge has been finding the back of the net—they’ve struggled to score multiple goals per game since June but they desperately need them now in order to keep their playoff dreams alive. A loss or draw would mean they’re effectively eliminated from the playoffs.

Match: Seattle Reign vs. Angel City FC - 10:00 PM EST How to watch: Prime Video

Reign FC welcomes Angel City FC on Friday night as both teams fight to stay in the playoff hunt. Seattle has dominated this matchup at home, never losing to Angel City in five meetings and allowing just two goals in that span. However, recent form tells a different story—the Reign are struggling with a three-game scoring drought and need to rediscover their attacking edge to break the slump. Meanwhile, Angel City has had no trouble scoring thanks to the goal contributions of the teenage phenom, Alyssa Thompson. To keep their playoff hopes alive, Angel City will need to shore up defensively while hoping for another impactful showing from Thompson.

Match: North Carolina Courage vs. San Diego Wave FC - 7:00 PM EST How to watch: NWSL+

One of the most dominant home teams in the league this season, North Carolina Courage, takes on San Diego Wave in North Carolina on Saturday afternoon. The Courage haven’t tasted defeat in their last 19 home matches, building an impressive fortress at WakeMed Soccer Park, and the last time they played the Wave, they won 4-1. San Diego’s young Melanie Barcenas has been a bright spot this season, but the Wave will need a complete team effort to crack the Courage’s stingy defense. And with a win, the Courage will clinch a playoff spot, providing even more motivation to put goals away early.

Match: Gotham FC vs. Bay FC - 7:30 PM EST How to watch: ION

Gotham FC hosts Bay FC with plenty on the line. Gotham has been a force at home this season, posting a club-record seven wins and turning their stadium into a tough place for opponents. Meanwhile, Bay FC has found their footing on the road, winning four of their last six away matches thanks in large part to goals from Asisat Oshoala. With one team already playoff bound and the other still on the hunt, Gotham will look to build on their earlier win over Bay FC while the visitors will hope to continue their strong away form. It could come down to who can capitalize on narrow chances first in what promises to be a tightly contested match.

Match: Racing Louisville FC vs. Kansas City Current - 7:30 PM EST How to watch: NWSL+

Racing Louisville FC hosts Kansas City Current on Saturday, where the home team will look to maintain their unbeaten home record against the Current and the away team will try and grab points to ensure they stay in the running for a home quarterfinal match. Louisville’s attack has been firing on all cylinders lately, scoring multiple goals in their last four home games, and they’ll aim to keep that momentum going. Kansas City, on the other hand, has proven tough to shut down, scoring consistently over the past year thanks to current Golden Boot leader Temwa Chawinga. Chawinga is on track to tying and maybe even overcoming the current single season goal record previously set in 2019 by Sam Kerr. Louisville will have their work cut out for them as they hope to keep her locked down and stay in the playoff race.

Match: Portland Thorns vs. Utah Royals FC - 10:00 PM EST How to watch: ION

The Portland Thorns host Utah Royals FC in a matchup where both sides are desperate for momentum. The Thorns have been struggling, earning just one point in their last six league matches—a skid they’ll be eager to snap in front of their home crowd. Meanwhile, Utah comes in on a high after a gritty 1-0 win over Racing Louisville and has shown they can compete with Portland. For the Thorns, finding their scoring rhythm again will be key, while Utah needs to capitalize on their recent form–a loss would see them eliminated from the playoff race.

Match: Orlando Pride vs. Washington Spirit - 5:00 PM EST How to watch: ESPN2 / ESPN+ / ESPN Deportes

Current league leaders Orlando Pride take on the second place Washington Spirit in a high-stakes showdown with playoff positioning and even a trophy on the line. The Pride have been in excellent form, recently setting a new clean sheet record with a commanding win over Houston, and are just one victory away from tying the NWSL record for most wins in a single season. The Spirit, however, have struggled to solve Orlando, going winless in their last five meetings. They’ll look to turn the tide with their high-powered attack, which has produced 15 multi-goal games this year, led by Ashley Hatch, who has been a thorn in Orlando’s side with nine career goals against them. But with an Orlando win, they’ll hoist the brand-new NWSL Shield in front of their home fans—is there any better motivation?
