NEW YORK (May 30, 2024) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) once again champions Pride throughout the month of June with events, partnerships, and a new Pride Plays Here brand campaign that adapts a script from the words of two-time Olympic gold medalist Abby Wambach and is voiced by NWSL legend and LGBTQIA+ advocate Megan Rapinoe.

The lynchpin event will be “NWSL Talking Pride” presented by Google Pixel, a panel featuring former NWSL athlete Ali Krieger and other leaders in the LGBTQIA+ community at the Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center in New York City - the first event at the center ahead of its grand opening on June 28. The event will stream live on NWSL+ and the NWSL’s YouTube channel.

Additional Pride 2024 initiatives include:

Playing for Pride 365 \- the NWSL’s joint initiative with LBGTQIA+ advocacy group Athlete Ally;

Pride jerseys and additional limited edition NWSL merchandise for fans to purchase; and

The Pride Plays Here spot will air during all June NWSL matches and across NWSL+, all social platforms and on NWSLSoccer.com

“The NWSL has always been an inclusive place for all of our players and fans, it’s part of our DNA, and Pride month gives us a great platform to celebrate our entire LGBTQIA+ community,” said NWSL Chief Marketing & Commercial Officer Julie Haddon. “To be able to host the first ever event at the Stonewall Visitor Center is so meaningful to us, but it’s just one part of all that we are doing to champion the community on and off the pitch.”

"Google Pixel is committed to innovation with intention, creating technology that empowers everyone to document and share their unique stories accurately,” said Senior Director of Marketing for Devices & Services at Google Zach Overton. “We're honored to partner with the NWSL in celebrating Pride and continue our tradition of amplifying the voices of LGBTQIA+ people and athletes year-round and fostering a more inclusive world."

NWSL 2024 Pride Month Initiatives:

PRIDE PLAYS HERE

In partnership with Bandits & Friends, the NWSL released its 2024 PRIDE PLAYS HERE spot today. The spot, narrated by Megan Rapinoe, highlights the league’s commitment to embracing diversity and building a more inclusive and dynamic community across sport and beyond. The impactful language throughout is adapted directly from the words of women’s soccer legend Abby Wambach and is brought to life by Rapinoe’s powerful voice. The video amplifies the way sports can help inspire meaningful change.

TALKING PRIDE PANEL

On Thursday, June 13th, the league will host the inaugural “NWSL Talking Pride” panel presented by Google Pixel, which will be held at the new Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center ahead of its official grand opening. The panel will feature prominent members of the LGBTQIA+ community, including retired NWSL star Ali Krieger, taking part in a moderated conversation on harnessing the power of sports as a catalyst for change. The event will be available to the public via livestream on NWSL+ and the NWSL’s YouTube channel.

RENEWAL OF PLAYING FOR PRIDE 365

The NWSL will continue its Playing for Pride 365 campaign that began in 2023 in partnership with LGBTQIA+ advocacy group Athlete Ally. This year the league will donate $150 for each goal and assist tallied throughout the month of June in support of increasing inclusivity and acceptance for the LGBTQIA+ community in the world of sports.

EXCLUSIVE NWSL PRIDE JERSEYS AND MERCHANDISE

NWSL players will again be sporting custom Pride jerseys throughout June as well as custom pre-match Pride tops before the club’s individual Pride matches. The pre-match tops were hand-designed by queer visual artist Sophia Yeshi, whose colorful and bold work amplifies Black women, women of color and folks in the LGBTQIA+ who demand attention.

For the first time ever, special edition Pride jerseys will be available on NWSLShop.com in addition to the pre-match tees, and all merchandise featuring new Pride designs for all 14 clubs will go live on June 1. Additionally, 10% of all NWSLShop.com Pride proceeds will be donated to Athlete Ally.

About NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.
