NEW YORK (April 1, 2026) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the hiring of Brian Kelly as Chief Commercial Officer and Rachel Epstein as Chief Marketing Officer. The hires come at a key moment of growth for the league, with the 2026 season opening to strong viewership, record attendance and expanding fan engagement, including a historic crowd of 63,004 for Denver Summit FC’s inaugural home opener at Empower Field at Mile High.

The league also announced that Jessica Goldstein has joined the NWSL as Vice President, Partnership Management and Solutions, while Meg Buchan has been promoted to Vice President, Broadcast and Carlin Hudson to Vice President, Strategy. Goldstein brings more than a decade of experience from Optimum Sports, where she led integrated marketing and partnership strategy, following earlier roles at the NBA. Buchan, an Emmy Award-winning broadcast executive, has played a key role in the league’s evolution from a single broadcast partner to a dynamic, multi-partner media ecosystem. Hudson, a former NWSL player, has been instrumental in building the league’s strategy function, helping shape its long-term vision and growth trajectory. Goldstein and Buchan are both part of the Commercial organization and Hudson is part of the Office of League Transformation.

“As we enter this pivotal next phase of growth for the NWSL and women’s soccer, finding the right leaders to guide our future is of paramount importance,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “Throughout the search, it became clear that Brian and Rachel are uniquely equipped to help shape the next chapter of the league as we continue to accelerate our growth, expand our global footprint and elevate the league’s cultural and commercial impact. We are proud to welcome them to the league and look forward to seeing the impact they make.”

“We are equally proud to recognize and elevate the exceptional talent within our own organization,” Berman added. “Meg and Carlin have each played critical roles in the league’s growth, and Jessica’s addition will further strengthen our ability to deliver innovative partnerships. This group reflects the depth of leadership we are building across the NWSL.”

As Chief Commercial Officer, Kelly will serve as the league’s strategic and operational business leader, overseeing business development, partnerships, media and broadcast, licensing and consumer products. As Chief Marketing Officer, Epstein will lead how the league shows up across culture, brand and the marketplace to drive audience connection, accelerate fandom growth and amplify the stories that position the league among the most exciting in sports.

“The momentum across the NWSL is clear, from rising attendance and viewership to growing interest from partners and fans alike,” said Kelly. “There is a significant opportunity to continue building a best-in-class commercial ecosystem that supports long-term growth for the league and its clubs. I look forward to working alongside Jessica, Rachel and the broader NWSL team to deepen partnerships, unlock new revenue streams and further accelerate the league’s commercial impact.”

“The NWSL is defining the future of sports, with a powerful connection to fans and a rapidly expanding cultural footprint,” said Epstein. “Building a brand that resonates across culture, media and community will be critical as the league continues to grow. I look forward to amplifying the stories of this league and its players and deepening the connection with fans around the world.”

Kelly began his duties today, while Epstein will officially join the league later this month.

About Kelly

Brian Kelly joins the NWSL from Top Rank Boxing, where he served as Chief Revenue Officer, leading the company’s revenue strategy across corporate partnerships, sponsorships, media rights, and diversified monetization opportunities. In that role, he was instrumental in aligning brand collaborations with Top Rank’s global platform, driving commercial impact across broadcast, digital, live events, and fan engagement.

Prior to Top Rank, Kelly held senior commercial leadership roles at Bleacher Report and Turner Sports, including Head of Sales and SVP positions, where he helped develop innovative monetization frameworks and secure major brand partnerships with global advertisers. His experience also includes roles at CBS Sports and IGA Worldwide, with deep expertise in sports media, branded content, and cross-platform revenue growth. He began his career with CBS Corporation and holds a degree in Communications from Quinnipiac University.

About Epstein

Rachel Epstein joins the NWSL from ESPN, where she served as Vice President of Live Sports and Audience Expansion. In that role, she oversaw marketing across a wide portfolio of properties including the WNBA, NWSL, tennis, NCAA Championships, MLB, Formula 1, international soccer and espnW, while also leading enterprise-wide strategy to drive female audience growth through live sports and storytelling.

She also led programming and development for espnW, including the espnW: Women + Sport Summit, the leading event of its kind. Prior to ESPN, Epstein was part of the leadership team that launched Women’s Professional Soccer (WPS), where she oversaw marketing, events, and sponsorship, bringing early experience building a women’s professional league.

Earlier in her career, she held roles within ESPN’s Consumer Marketing group focused on NBA and WNBA promotion and began her career at Wenner Media working across major titles including Rolling Stone, Us Weekly, and Men’s Journal. A former All-American tennis player at Indiana University, she was a four-time Big Ten Champion and team captain her senior year.

About the NWSL The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, NWSL Atlanta, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

NWSL Media Contact: Jennifer Levine jlevine@nwslsoccer.com
