Summer break is over, which means it’s time for more NWSL!

This weekend will see fans return to the stands for the second half of the 2025 season and some key players return to their clubs to prepare for a playoff push. Euro champions Jess Carter (Gotham FC), Esme Morgan (Washington Spirit), and Anna Moorhouse (Orlando Pride) are back from lifting the trophy with England, while Bay FC’s Asisat Oshoala and Houston’s Michelle Alozie return as WAFCON champions after securing Nigeria’s record 10th title. With Copa América nearing its finale, clubs are on the verge of being fully reloaded, making the race to the playoffs officially on.

Here's what to look forward to in Week 14!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Prime Video

Racing Louisville’s last two games before the summer break were tough matchups: a 2-4 loss against the league-leading KC Current and a huge 2-0 victory against the defending champs, Orlando Pride. Their first game back from summer will also be tough, a repeat against the Current, but this time they’re rested and rejuvenated. Emma Sears is one goal away from setting a new single-season scoring record for Louisville, and playmaker Janine Sonis is having a strong season so far with three assists. Savannah DeMelo, the club’s all-time goals and assists leader, will be central to the attack as always. On the other side, Kansas City rolls in with the league’s top offense, led by the 2024 Golden Boot winner Temwa Chawinga, who currently has eight goals this season and is in second place in the 2025 race. And if Chawinga isn’t in scoring form, she’s surrounded by difference makers Michelle Cooper, Bia Zaneratto, and Claire Hutton (just to name a few).

How to watch: NWSL+

The last time these teams met, it ended in a scoreless draw. Gotham FC is unlikely to be kept quiet this time, with Esther González back in the mix after leading Euro 2025 in scoring. She tied the league record for braces in a season and could break it Friday night, with Sarah Schupansky and Geyse also potential impact players in the buildup. For Chicago, Ludmila leads the team in goals and touches in the box, making her their most dangerous attacking threat. Also keep an eye out for German international Kathrin Hendrich, who could make her NWSL debut.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+

Seattle made one of the signings of the summer by enticing USYNT and Chelsea forward Mia Fishel back to the U.S. Will we see her score her first NWSL goal this weekend? Veteran playmaker Jess Fishlock remains the heartbeat of the midfield with Maddie Dahlien, Emeri Adames, and Jordyn Bugg all players to watch this match. Angel City, meanwhile, could see the debut of Icelandic winger Sveindis Jónsdóttir. Rookie Riley Tiernan, who scored against the Reign the last time these two teams played, is one goal away from becoming the second rookie in NWSL history to score eight goals, and veteran goal scorer, Christen Press, is one away from scoring 50 career NWSL goals. This matchup pits two teams made up of a healthy mixture of youth and experience, with each battling for a playoff spot. It's surely a can’t-miss.

How to watch: ION

Last time these two teams played, the Wave dismantled North Carolina’s defense with a 5-2 scoreline. It’s personal this time. North Carolina’s Manaka Matsukubo remains one of the brightest young stars in the league and scored last time they faced San Diego, while Ryan Williams and Ashley Sanchez fortify the midfield. San Diego brings firepower of their own. Delphine Cascarino returns from a standout Euro performance with France. Kenza Dali was named to the NWSL June Team of the Month, and the Canadian, Adriana Leon, will also provide offensive support. To be honest, the Wave are dangerous from anywhere on the pitch and are surely a team that will be playing in November. This will be a battle of midfield creativity and transition efficiency, and we’re so ready for it.

How to watch: ION

When these teams last met, it ended in a 2–2 draw. Both teams will be hoping for a do-over this time. Nigeria’s Asisat Oshoala and Zambia’s Racheal Kundananji, both fresh off strong WAFCON campaigns, will surely be ready to bring some of those scoring habits back to the Bay, with Penelope Hocking also a threat to Houston’s defense. Houston’s Messiah Bright scored the late equalizer in the last meeting, and Oshoala’s fellow Nigeria teammate and WAFCON champion, Michelle Alozie, will be key to the Dash’s wide play. Expect those two and Avery Patterson to be important players to watch this match.

How to watch: ABC, ESPN+

This NWSL After Brunch kickoff at Audi Field features a host of returning internationals. Washington gets back Euro winner Esme Morgan, but with Copa América finalist Leicy Santos, Croix Bethune remains as the Spirit’s creative engine. For Portland, June 2025 Rookie of the Month Pietra Tordin is growing into her role, and Bella Bixby anchors a defense that ranks among the stingiest in the league. Olivia Moultrie and Sam Coffey will need to win the midfield battle for Portland to keep pace in the playoff race with the Spirit, who are a point ahead of them in the standings.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+

Barbra Banda made history last time these two met with a first-half hat trick – the first in Orlando Pride history and the earliest in NWSL history – and she’s back from WAFCON, where she scored three more for Zambia. The Pride will be without their Brazilians, who are competing for Copa América glory with their country, but will surely see the return of Euro champion Anna Moorhouse. For Utah, Janni Thomsen comes back from Euro 2025 after netting a goal for Denmark, and second-year Brecken Mozingo continues to be a bright spot in the attack. The Royals have struggled to contain high-powered attacks, and Banda & Co. will look to overwhelm again as Orlando continues its march toward the postseason and potentially, a back-to-back trophy.
