Week 23 brought all the drama, with teams battling for playoff spots and the opportunity to host a playoff match in front of their home fans. From standout performances to historic milestones, we have all the storylines to catch up on before we head into Week 24!

Portland ended Orlando Pride's undefeated streak with a commanding 2-0 performance, reclaiming momentum as the Thorns fight for a playoff spot.

Makenna Morris scored a brace against Louisville in the Spirit's 4-1 home win, making her the first NWSL rookie to score multiple goals in one game in 2024.

History was made as Kansas City Current and Gotham FC clinched top 4 seeding for the playoffs, which means both teams will host playoff games for the first time.

After missing out last year, Chicago secured a playoff berth for 2024. The Red Stars have reached the playoffs of every regular season since 2015, except for last season.

Christen Press celebrated her 100th NWSL appearance in style, netting her first goal since returning from injury. She is the 10th player in league history to score in their 100th regular-season game.

Temwa Chawinga etched her name into NWSL record books by scoring her 19th goal of the season, breaking Sam Kerr’s 2019 single-season scoring record.

The Washington Spirit secured a home playoff berth, bringing playoff soccer back to Washington, D.C., for the first time since 2021.

Cloé Lacasse made history with the first hat trick of the NWSL season, becoming the first Utah Royals FC player to score three goals in a game and only the second in league history to do so in the first half.

The Houston Dash continued their dominance in the Golden State, defeating San Diego Wave to make the Texas club 3-for-3 in road wins over California teams this season. Only Gotham and Kansas City can claim the same feat.

Ashley Hatch converted her penalty in Washington Spirit's 4-1 win on Saturday, extending her streak to 11 consecutive conversions—the longest in NWSL regular-season history.

North Carolina Courage extended their home undefeated streak thanks to Olivia Wingate's equalizer in the 10th minute of stoppage. The Courage have not lost at home in regular-season play for 21 straight games—just one game shy of the league record.
