Matchweek 9 has come and gone, and now we are just one week out from the summer break. Every club wants to go out on a high note, and while some teams continued rolling, others got a much-needed jolt.

The Seattle Reign broke a scoreless drought that started on March 28 with a two-goal win over the Boston Legacy, handing them their first loss since April 25. The NWSL’s all-time assist leader, Sofia Huerta, became the fifth player in league history to earn her 200th regular season start – and she scored. Huerta has now scored in every season since 2015. Keeper Claudia Dickey made her 200th career save and kept the Legacy to just one goal, scored in stoppage time by Aïssata Traoré.

The North Carolina Courage earned their 100th regular-season win in club history in a 2-1 victory at Racing Louisville. Evelyn Ijeh scored her second NWSL goal in the first half and Golden Boot contender Ashley Sanchez surpassed her single-season high, scoring her seventh goal of the year. Both Ijeh and Sanchez have now scored in back-to-back matches. Racing captain Arin Wright threatened a comeback with a goal in the 90th minute, but it was too late for the home team to mount a comeback.

In the first-ever Continental Divide matchup, the Utah Royals came out on top. Mexican international Kiana Palacios scored her first NWSL goal only for the Denver Summit to level the match before the end of the half. Yazmeen Ryan put away her second goal of the year thanks to a Delanie Sheehan assist. The Royals cemented their W with a converted PK from Mina Tanaka. With the win, the Royals now sit atop the table for the first time since May 2019, going nine straight matches unbeaten.

After splitting points with one SoCal team, the Houston Dash got three with a win over Angel City FC. Maggie Graham scored the stoppage-time, game-winning goal, her third of the season. Rookies Kat Rader scored her second goal of the week, assisted by fellow rookie Kate Faasse, and Maiara Niehues scored an equalizer on a PK conversion 10 minutes later. The Dash scored just one goal since April 25 but scored four in two Matchweek 9 games. Caroline DeLisle got the start in net for the Dash, who were without veteran keeper Jane Campbell.

Just days after extending their league home shutout streak, the Portland Thorns were on the losing side of another daunting homefield advantage. The Kansas City Current won at home over the Thorns, making it 22-straight regular season matches without a loss at CPKC Stadium, tying the record previously set by the Seattle Reign. Though Sophia Wilson opened up scoring early in the match, the Current would score three unanswered goals to secure the win. Ally Sentnor teed up Lo’eau LaBonta’s first goal of the season just before the end of the first half, and Temwa Chawinga continued her tear, scoring and getting an assist on Haley Hopkins’s stoppage-time insurance goal.

In a showdown between two teams that needed a boost before the break, it was the Chicago Stars who made the opportunity count. Discipline proved to be a challenge for Bay FC, who went down to nine players after losing both Alda Cometti and Jordan Silkowitz to red card ejections. It opened the door for Mallory Swanson to score her first goal since returning from maternity leave – in just her second appearance. It was the first Stars win and goal since April 25, while Bay have been shut out in their last two.

The Wave started the week splitting points in Houston, but the Pride prevented them from cashing in a multi-point week. The game was decided by third-year player Nicole Payne, whose first-half stoppage time goal was her first.

The last round of midweek matchups before the summer break did not disappoint. Here’s what you missed.

Dudinha scored her fourth goal of the season in the first half.

Rookies Kate Faasse and Kat Rader scored in the second half to equalize and take the lead. It was Faasse’s first career goal and Rader’s fourth.

Trinity Byars scored in back-to-back matches for her first and second NWSL career goals. The stoppage-time goal leveled the match.

Houston keeper Jane Campbell was taken out of the game after a collision and was out during the Dash’s match against Angel City.

The Portland Thorns hit 594 minutes without conceding a goal at home, holding Bay FC scoreless.

Defender M.A . Vignola scored the first goal of the match, her first for the Portland Thorns.

Rookie Mallie McKenzie scored her first career goal to double the lead, just minutes after subbing into the match, and Sophia Wilson earned the assist, her first of the season.

Angel City got back on track with a 2-1 win over the KC Current, stringing together their first multi-goal match since March 27.

Kennedy Fuller scored the game-winning goal in the 70th minute.

Gisele Thompson scored her third goal of the season and assisted the game-winner.

Ally Sentnor scored her second goal of the season for the Kansas City Current to equalize.

Lo LaBonta was denied a second-half PK by Angel City keeper Angelina Anderson, her second PK save in the NWSL.
