The NWSL season is officially on summer break with league play returning on July 3, but that doesn’t mean you have to go a month without watching your favorite NWSL players. Many of the league’s top players will be suiting up for their national teams in a busy month packed with 2027 FIFA Women’s World Cup qualifiers, roster-shaping friendlies, and regional tournaments on the calendar. Here are 10 NWSL players called up by their national teams to keep an eye on during the international break .

Few young players in the NWSL are breaking out quite like Dudinha. After arriving in San Diego in July 2025, the Brazilian attacker has quickly become one of the league’s most exciting young stars, leading the Wave with five goals and four assists while starting every match this season. Now, she’ll get a major test on the international stage as Brazil takes on the United States in a pair of friendlies on home soil. With Brazil set to host the FIFA Women’s World Cup next summer, these matches will offer a glimpse into where the Seleção stands and Dudinha’s place on the squad.

After missing the 2025 season on maternity leave, Sophia Wilson has returned looking every bit like one of the best forwards in the world, tallying five goals and an assist in her comeback campaign for the Portland Thorns. This international window will mark the long-awaited reunion of “Triple Espresso” as Wilson joins Trinity Rodman and Mallory Swanson on the same U.S. roster for the first time since helping the team win Olympic gold in Paris in 2024. While Wilson has already returned to international play, she’ll be chasing her first USWNT goal since the Olympic semifinal against Germany. With 24 goals in 61 caps, it may only be a matter of time.

At just 21 years old, Jaedyn Shaw continues to prove she belongs at the center of the United States’ future. The Gotham FC attacker has scored four goals this season and recently became the youngest player in NWSL history to score in three consecutive matches. Her rise with the national team has been just as impressive. Shaw netted her 10th international goal earlier this year and has become increasingly difficult for the USWNT to leave off the field. Creative, fearless, and endlessly dangerous in front of goal, Shaw feels less like a rising prospect and more like an established household name.

Expansion side Denver Summit FC has been the talk of the town in its inaugural season and Melissa Kössler has been one of the biggest reasons why. The German forward has scored four goals for Denver, helping lead the front line alongside fellow attacking standouts Tash Flint and Janine Sonis. Kössler has long been part of Germany’s international system, including helping her country win the UEFA U-17 Women’s Championship in 2017. Now, with Germany continuing UEFA World Cup qualifying this month and leading their group (group leaders earn one of eleven of UEFA’s World Cup spots), Kössler will have another opportunity to continue building her case for a larger role with one of Europe’s perennial powerhouses.

Guro Reiten may still be relatively new to Gotham FC, but she has wasted little time making an impact. Since arriving, the Norwegian international has started every game and helped solidify a Gotham backline that has conceded the fewest goals in the league, while also contributing offensively with an assist. For Norway, Reiten remains one of the team’s most influential players – having scored three World Cup goals in her career – as they continue their push toward qualification for next summer’s World Cup. A proven creator with a knack for delivering in big moments, Reiten will once again be central to Norway’s hopes this window. They’re in a tough group with Germany currently leading in points but the two countries will face off this Friday and the winner will more than likely earn a spot in the World Cup.

The reigning NWSL Midfielder of the Year continues to remind us why she earned that honor last in 2025. Manaka Matsukubo has been central to North Carolina Courage’s attack this season, contributing five goals and four assists as the club climbs the table behind a three-game winning streak. Japan may only be playing friendlies during this window, but that doesn’t make Matsukubo any less worth watching. With the Nadeshiko preparing for next summer’s World Cup and refining one of the deepest squads in international soccer, every opportunity to show you deserve a spot on the roster matters. But one thing is clear for anyone paying attention, Matsukubo is one of Japan’s – and the NWSL’s – brightest playmakers.

It hasn’t taken Evelyn Ijeh long to make an impression in the NWSL. In her first season with the Courage, the Swedish forward has scored three goals in the last three games before the summer break, instantly giving North Carolina another dangerous attacking option alongside Ashley Sanchez and Matsukubo. Now, she’ll shift focus to Sweden, where she could play an important role during UEFA Women’s World Cup qualifying as they fight to overtake Denmark as their group leaders. Sweden remains one of Europe’s most consistent contenders – and the USA’s biggest rivals – and Ijeh’s recent scoring form makes her a player to keep a close eye on this month.

It’s no coincidence Utah Royals FC’s turnaround this season coincided with the arrival of Mina Tanaka and the club’s Japanese internationals from winning the Women’s Asian Cup. Tanaka has delivered four goals and four assists since then, helping spark one of the league’s hottest teams and becoming a favorite for fans across the league who enjoy soccer in its purest form. And with Japan, even in friendlies, their already fluid attack becomes must-watch soccer when Tanaka joins in to pull the strings.

Temwa Chawinga, the two-time NWSL MVP, is on yet another tear this season. After returning from injury earlier this season, the Kansas City Current forward has been in incredible form, tallying seven goals and two assists in eight matches while quickly climbing back into the Golden Boot race. Chawinga’s ability to single-handedly change matches – including her game-winner against Portland in Matchweek 9 – makes her one of the most electric players in global soccer right now. Malawi may only be playing friendlies ahead of the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations next month, but any chance to watch Chawinga in her element is worth tuning in for.

Leicy Santos heads into the international break with massive stakes on the line. Colombia is competing in the inaugural Liga de Naciones Femenina, CONMEBOL’s qualification pathway for next year’s World Cup, where the top two teams will punch their tickets to the tournament. With Colombia currently in a qualification position, this month’s final slate of matches are of the utmost importance. Santos has already shown how influential she can be for both club and country, so seeing her in her national team environment is a treat for any NWSL fan (not just the Spirit faithful).

Several other NWSL standouts are also worth keeping tabs on this international break. Racing Louisville FC forward Emma Sears continues to build on another strong campaign at the club level by showing USWNT fans what she can do for country. The United States squad may already have qualified for the World Cup but their upcoming friendlies against Brazil in Brazil are incredibly important for building experience and helping Emma Hayes figure out who is the future of the team. This is yet another opportunity for Sears to make her case. Gotham FC defender Jess Carter has once again been central to one of the league’s stingiest backlines and will be key for an England side still battling to secure qualification for next summer’s tournament. They lead their group but have a game against defending World Champs Spain on the horizon.

Meanwhile, Washington Spirit attacker Sofia Cantore heads into a critical stretch with Italy, who remain firmly in the fight for a World Cup spot, while Portland Thorns goalkeeper Mackenzie Arnold will continue serving as a veteran leader for Australia as the Matildas prepare for a World Cup they’ve already qualified for next summer. And one other USWNT player is a player to watch this break: Mallory Swanson has only just returned from maternity leave but has already found the back of the net for Chicago in the run of play. This will be her first USWNT camp since before announcing her pregnancy so her participation levels are still uncertain but she remains a player to monitor as she works her way back to full minutes.

All four players, and many others, have been vital contributors for their clubs this season and could have equally important roles to play for their countries this month. As the international break continues, keep an eye out on NWSL socials for updates, highlights, and standout performances.
