NEW YORK (October 4, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League, in partnership with CarMax, today announced the launch of In Their Own Words, a new written series that will give six NWSL athletes a platform to share the unique personal journeys that have shaped their lives on and off the pitch.

NEW YORK (October 4, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League, in partnership with CarMax, today announced the launch of In Their Own Words, a new written series that will give six NWSL athletes a platform to share the unique personal journeys that have shaped their lives on and off the pitch.

Launching today, In Their Own Words will feature one publication per athlete offering readers an intimate and profound look into their lives as players and people. This year’s series will cover a variety of topics, including mental health, motherhood, the journey to professional soccer and more. “We’re proud to partner with the NWSL to provide a platform for six incredible NWSL players to tell their stories in their own words,” said CarMax’s Chief Marketing Officer, Sarah Lane. “CarMax is committed to increasing the visibility of women’s sports through our partnerships, which starts by investing in series like, ‘In Their Own Words’. We’re looking forward to sharing some of the untold stories of the inspiring women in this league to recognize their journeys and invite fans to connect with the players on a deeper level.” Players and stories to be featured in this year’s series include OL Reign midfielder Jess Fishlock and her experience as an original member of the NWSL, Orlando Pride forward Messiah Bright on her first season in the pros and NJ/NY Gotham FC midfielder Sinead Farrelly on her return to the NWSL. San Diego Wave FC defender Naomi Girma’s perspective on mental health advocacy and her initiative with the Common Goal and Angel City FC defender Katie Johnson’s experience growing up in LA and playing for her hometown team will also be featured in In Their Own Words. The series begins with Chicago Red Stars defender Casey Krueger, who details her journey as a new mom and professional athlete. Krueger, a member of the USWNT Olympics roster in 2021, shares the challenges and surprises of her pregnancy and childbirth and the fresh perspective that being a mother has brought to her career. Now in her eighth NWSL season, the veteran defender highlights her support system of loved ones and teammates from the Red Stars and USWNT in a heartwarming launch to In Their Own Words. All features will be available to read at NWSLsoccer.com/Intheirownwords.
