NEW YORK, NY (February 18, 2025) \- Overtime and the National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced a game-changing content partnership, the company’s first with a professional women’s league.

The NWSL will provide Overtime access to a variety of NWSL moments including the full regular season, playoffs, championship and Challenge Cup, giving its over 100 million social media followers game highlights, behind-the-scenes access to players and more.

“Both the NWSL and Overtime prioritize innovation and community engagement as powerful tools in the promotion of sports and entertainment,” said Dan Porter, CEO of Overtime. “This relationship is built on shared values and a vision for expanding women’s sports which is why we’re excited to work together - to provide even more unique and compelling stories for next generation fans and brand partners.”

2025 NWSL competition kicks off with the 2025 NWSL Challenge Cup, a rematch of last year’s Championship game as the reigning champion Orlando Pride hosts the Washington Spirit on Friday, March 7, for a rematch of last season’s title contest. The 2025 NWSL Regular Season begins Friday, March 14 with all 14 clubs in action across the weekend.

“Adding Overtime to our growing roster of media partners ensures that our league and incredible athletes will continue to show up and inspire across new platforms and spaces," said NWSL Chief Marketing & Commercial Officer Julie Haddon. "The enthusiasm around our sport and women's sports overall continues to thrive, and we're excited to work with a dynamic brand like Overtime to capitalize on fan engagement as we further immerse current fans and reach new fans in 2025."

Overtime has always been at the forefront of innovation in sports media, capturing the attention of a massive and engaged Gen Z and Millennial audience. Overtime FC, Overtime’s soccer arm, expertly blends the worlds of sports, culture, and fan engagement, with over 5MM followers across platforms. Last August, Overtime FC released its first-ever merchandise collection without being an actual soccer club, symbolizing how digital communities can transcend traditional boundaries to drive commerce.

The 2025 season is poised to build on the success of a 2024 campaign that saw continued record-breaking growth across league broadcast viewership and match attendance. The second season of the NWSL’s historic four-year domestic media rights agreements with CBS Sports, ESPN, ION and Prime Video, will see 160 matches will be featured on national platforms throughout the season.

About National Women's Soccer League

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, BOS Nation FC, Chicago Red Stars, Denver NWSL, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Overtime

Overtime empowers the next generation of athletes and fans across digital platforms by building disruptive new sports leagues and developing and distributing original sports content.

Overtime owns and operates OTE and Overtime Select in basketball, OT7 in football, and OTX in boxing while producing over 150 pieces of original sports content weekly for its 115MM+ global followers. The company is a key partner to marquee sports leagues and rights holders worldwide, including the NFL and NBC Sports for the Olympic Games. Overtime's business model is driven by sponsorships, e-commerce, licensing and media rights.

Overtime is funded by top VC firms, strategic investors, industry leaders, and athletes, including Liberty Media Corporation, Amazon, Andreessen Horowitz, Counterpoint Global (Morgan Stanley), Sapphire Sport, Winslow Capital, Spark Capital, Micromanagement Ventures (the family of the late David Stern),

Black Capital, Blackstone Strategic Partners, Alexis Ohanian, Bezos Expeditions, Drake, Quavo and 40+ NBA and NFL stars including Carmelo Anthony, Kevin Durant and Trae Young. 5 NBA team owners and over 6% of active NBA players have invested in Overtime.
