Going into this match, the Portland Thorns are likely to be the favorites. They sit at the top of the table. Star forward Sophia Wilson is back doing what she does best, and midfielder Olivia Moultrie is having a fantastic season. That being said, Racing Louisville will make this match interesting. Goalkeeper Jordyn Bloomer has already made phenomenal saves this season, and she’ll have to be on her A-game to stand up to the Thorns. Louisville has the attacking talent – players like Emma Sears, Sarah Weber, and Taylor Flint can make any back line nervous. Sears leads the league in assists in the least amount of minutes played. Racing will look to capitalize on any and all mistakes, but the Thorns are more than willing to rise to the challenge.

This match is going to be the battle of the Golden Boot contenders: Orlando’s Barbra Banda vs. North Carolina’s Ashley Sanchez. Both teams will be looking to create as many chances for their Golden Boot. Add the fact that both teams are coming to the table after heartbreaking losses due to a defensive lapse in the waning moments of the game, and you’ve got two teams with something to prove. All this to say – expect goals and fireworks. The key for Orlando will be tightening up their marking to ensure that players like Sanchez aren’t left wide open, an issue that the Pride had last weekend when too many Spirit players made dangerous runs behind the backline. While this is also true for the Courage, they need to leverage their other attacking options. While Orlando is focused on Sanchez, players like Riley Jackson and Manaka Matsukubo can sneak right in and score.

Part two of this burgeoning rivalry matchup between Gotham FC and Boston Legacy FC is already fast approaching. In their previous encounter – the first match in club history for Boston – there were a total of seven yellow cards and one red card. The Legacy are facing the reigning champions after getting their first ever win last week in extra time. Their “never say die” mentality will be crucial against a team like Gotham, who has won their last three matches and is stacked with some of the best talent in the world including recent acquisition Guro Reiten from Chelsea FC. For the home team, they can’t get too comfortable. Boston wants revenge after losing in the last matchup by a single goal, but Gotham’s backline and stalwart keeper Ann-Katrin Berger have given up goals in just two games this season.

This match will be a battle of wills. The Houston Dash are looking to reignite their winning ways after a hard April and a tough Wednesday night loss to the Utah Royals. The Denver Summit are looking to avenge last week’s heartbreaking 3-2 loss to Boston. Both teams have fantastic goalscorers who put the league on notice earlier in the season. For Houston, their key will be exploiting Denver’s backline. Most teams will try to double-team Melissa Kössler, but the Summit have other goal scorers to rely on, like Janine Sonis and Natasha Flint, to catch the Dash off guard. This is also a matchup of two talented goalkeepers who have been putting up save after incredible save so far this season – Houston’s Jane Campbell and Denver’s Abby Smith. Both teams have a lot to prove this match, and it should be a fight to the finish.

Another chapter of the California Clash is on the way in a Rivalry Match, presented by Ally. Both Angel City FC and San Diego Wave FC are coming off upsets. Both are hungry to get the win over their SoCal opponent. Unfortunately for the Wave, they’ll be without head coach Jonas Eidevall after he was shown a red card at the end of last week’s match. Despite this, San Diego has the potential to take control of the game early with players like Dudinha and Kenza Dali in the attack. If they can score early and settle into the rhythm of the match, San Diego will ride the wave to a win. Angel City has great attacking players too - Gisele Thompson, Sveindís Jónsdóttir, and Riley Tiernan, and defender Gisele Thompson just to name a few. The secret for the home team will be leveraging those players without compromising their defense.

An added plotline in this one: San Diego Wave Assistant Coach Becki Tweed will step into the head coaching duties for the match with Eidevall on red card suspension. Tweed served as an assistant coach for Angel City FC, eventually serving as the interim head coach. When she led them to their first playoff campagin, Tweed was hired as the full time head coach for through the end of the 2024 season.

Coming off a hard-fought win against the North Carolina Courage, Kansas City Current are looking to gain more positive momentum after a slow start this season while the Chicago Stars are looking to sweep the 2026 series against the Current after a surprise 2-1 win in Matchweek 2. Current midfielder Croix Bethune and forward Michelle Cooper seem to be hitting their strides. Both scored difficult goals against North Carolina last week, which will likely build their confidence even more. Meanwhile for the Stars they have legendary goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher in net, who combined with stalwart defensive presences Michelle Alozie and Sam Staab will hopefully give some much needed stability. The Current and the Stars have both lost multiple games this season by three goals or more, meaning they both have a tendency to let in easy goals and miss chances of their own. But both teams have the same key to the game: stay focused defensively and try to provoke the other team into making a mistake.

Utah’s been on a roll, having a six-game unbeaten streak. Their offense is clicking, with Narumi and Cloé Lacasse providing clever goals aplenty. Lacasse in particular has scored in the last three games for the Royals including Wednesday’s midweek matchup against Houston. Meanwhile, Bay FC are coming off a disciplined win against their Californian cousins, the San Diego Wave, with keeper Jordan Silkowitz making six silky smooth saves to keep her team on top including a Save of the Week-winning penalty kick save. However, it was a game won by thin margins, with only one goal scored. On paper it may seem like Utah is more likely to keep their multi-goal win streak going, but traveling to Houston midweek and then San Jose, there may be some heavy legs in the starting lineup. Bay has an entire week of rest, and they’re playing in front of their home fans. Expect a solid Mother’s Day matchup.

After gaining nine points in eight days, the Washington Spirit head west to Seattle looking to extend their four-game winning streak. In the last game, Sofia Cantore scored the fastest brace from kickoff in NWSL history, in just five minutes and 27 seconds from the whistle. Trinity Rodman has found her stride this season, scoring in the past three games and assisting in two of them. The Reign, meanwhile, have had a spate of bad luck in the last three matches and haven't scored a goal since March. But they may be ready for a challenge. Brittany Ratcliffe, who left the Spirit as a free agent this past offseason, has scored twice and has been in fantastic form for the Reign this season, but like her teammates, has had a quiet few weeks. Goalkeeper Claudia Dickey and her defense kept a clean sheet last game against an energetic Houston front line. That defense may be the difference maker for them when playing such a high-flying team as the Spirit. For the Spirit, they need to utilize the speed and technique of their forwards to get past Seattle’s back line and stay in second place or even close the gap between them and the Thorns if Portland drops points this weekend.
