The rumors are true. Sam Kerr is back in the NWSL.

Gotham FC announced this week Kerr signed with the club through 2030, bringing the Australian striker back to the club, where she spent 2015-17. Then, the team was Sky Blue FC, but it is the same New York/New Jersey club where she won the 2017 NWSL MVP and Golden Boot.

It's no surprise one of the first media outlets Kerr spoke to was The Women's Game podcast hosted by Sam Mewis and Kristie Mewis, Kerr's wife. As Sam teed up the announcement, Kristie said, "Say where we're going," and Kerr leaned into frame.

"Hello Sammy," she said. "You already know, but we're officially joining Gotham FC."

Kerr was part of the NWSL's inaugural season, winning the first Shield with the Western New York Flash in 2013. In her three seasons with Sky Blue, Kerr scored 28 regular-season goals, still the most in club history.

With the then Chicago Red Stars, Kerr won two Golden Boots and another NWSL MVP, but the club lost in the 2019 NWSL Championship, 4-0, to the North Carolina Courage. Though Kerr's name is in so many NWSL records, she told Sports Illustrated's Jenna Tonelli that she knew she'd return.

“I didn’t win a whole lot on a team level,” Kerr said. “With everything I’d achieved at Chelsea and the change that was going on there, it felt like it was the right time. There wasn’t really anywhere else I saw myself \[at this point in my career\] other than the NWSL.”

In her time with Chelsea, Kerr scored 116 goals, tying her for all-time with Fran Kirby. Kerr reunites with former Chelsea teammate Guro Reiten, who signed with Gotham in March and spoke with Sam Mewis on The Women's Game podcast.

"Sam is one of my best friends and we've spent seven years together at Chelsea. I said goodbye thinking this was our time playing together, but now she's coming here," Reiten said. "It's going to be amazing. She's one of the best strikers in the world and we're so excited."

While Reiten is excited, she also has the privilege of playing alongside and not against Kerr. Her 78 goals in all competitions is fourth in league history, so Kerr’s Australian national teammate and Portland Thorns keeper Mackenze Arnold, is understandably less excited about her return.

“I can’t escape it,” she wrote on Gotham’s Instagram announcement.

And it won’t be long until Arnold and Kerr reunite. The Portland Thorns host Gotham FC at Providence Park July 24.
