Matchweek 4 is upon us before a brief international break. There are OG perennial contenders going head-to-head, top scorers facing off, and teams still searching for that first W of the year.

Let’s get into what the weekend has in store.

How to Watch: NWSL+

The Boston Legacy cleared a major first hurdle in their last game when Aissata Traoré scored the expansion club’s first-ever goal, but they are still after their first win. The San Diego Wave may prove to be a difficult opponent to accomplish that feat, having won three straight games. But if there’s one constant in the NWSL, it’s chaos. In Matchweek 3, the Legacy’s offense sputtered until Amanda Guittieres came on as a second-half sub, assisting Traoré’s goal less than 20 minutes after hitting the pitch. The test will be if Boston can find that same offensive rhythm earlier in the match. On the other hand, scoring for San Diego has been anything but a problem. Rookie Lia Godfrey has scored in three straight games, and 18-year-old phenom Mel Barcenas scored in both the Wave’s Matchweek 3 games. Brazilian star Dudinha had two assists against the Stars and earned a goal and another assist against the Thorns.

Orlando Pride vs Angel City FC - 8 p.m. ET

How to Watch: Prime Video

Two of the league’s most consistent and exciting goal scorers go head-to-head – Orlando’s Barbra Banda and Angel City’s Sveindís Jónsdóttir. Both have scored three goals through Matchweek 3 and have shown little signs of slowing down. Angel City will make their first cross-country haul of the year after three straight matches in California, but with the frontline of Jónsdóttir, Riley Tiernan, Ary Borges, Kennedy Fuller, and Maiara Niehues, there are no shortage of options, even if jetlag is a factor. In addition to Banda doing Banda things, Jacquie Ovalle has a goal and two assists on the season, and getting La Maga (The Magician) involved is always a good thing for the Pride attack. Coming off a scoreless draw against Gotham where they just couldn’t break through, the Pride will be eager to get on the board early.

How to Watch: NWSL+

The Friday night fun continues in Houston, with the Dash at home. Despite giving up two second-half goals last Friday in Los Angeles to lose a game they were winning at the half, they’re a dangerous team with a solid backline and a balanced offense. Last weekend, Maggie Graham opened her 2026 account with a perfectly timed header off of a corner, and while the Dash don’t dominate possession, they’ve shown they can be clinical when chances come. It’s a team comfortable playing without the ball and punishing mistakes — a style that could dictate this matchup.

Louisville, meanwhile, is still searching for its first win of the season, but there are signs of life. Rookie Macy Blackburn’s first professional goal last weekend was a breakthrough moment, and players like Savannah DeMelo and Emma Sears remain the creative engine for Racing. Even with inconsistent results, this is a squad not to be taken lightly and – once they rediscover their 2025 magic – is dangerous, especially with 2025 NWSL Coach of the Year Bev Yanez at the helm.

How to Watch: NWSL+

In the final match of the night, the Utah Royals host the Chicago Stars in their stadium surrounded by mountains. The Royals won their match in Boston last weekend thanks to goals from Tatumn Milazzo – her second game-winner of the season – and Lara Prašnikar, while the Stars tasted defeat on the road after dropping points against a clinical Thorns. Utah also has Mina Tanaka back from international duty and she’s already scored her first of the season.

Meanwhile the Stars have a bevy of new talent on their squad this season and while they may still be learning how to play alongside one another, they’ve shown moments of brilliance, especially against Kansas City in Week 2. However, their defense needs some fine tuning, as they’ve given up multiple goals in every other match besides that huge win at home against the Current. And they’re still searching for a forward to deliver them goals until Mallory Swanson returns. This weekend may be the perfect time to implement a fresh game plan and turn around the trajectory of the season.

How to Watch: CBS, Paramount+

Saturday kicks off with a preview of June’s 2026 Challenge Cup between the reigning NWSL Shield and Championship winners. Despite last season's success, both clubs have started the 2026 season off with less of the efficiency they ended the last with. Both teams won the first game of the season, but have yet to take home three points since. Without back-to-back Golden Boot and MVP winner Temwa Chawinga in the lineup through Matchweek 3, the Current have failed to recreate the magic of last year’s attack, even with midfielder Croix Bethune in the mix. But good news came to Kansas City on Friday morning: Chawinga is back after being out on injury. While having their star playmaker back on the pitch is sure to help, it remains to be seen just how much game action she’ll see.

Gotham is struggling in the same vein, having scored just one goal this year – Esther González’s game-winner in the first match of the year. Kansas City has dropped its last three, Gotham have fared a bit better because of the club’s stalwart defense led by Emily Sonnett and keeper Ann-Katrin Berger. Gotham has conceded just two goals, and if that level of execution holds, it won’t be an easy task for the Current to get something started.

How to Watch: ION

Tied atop the all-time trophy count, North Carolina Courage vs. Portland Thorns has always been a clash of two historic giants. But headed into Week 4 of the 2026 season, both teams are at different levels. Portland heads into the weekend with the confidence of a 2-0 shutout win while North Carolina look to respond after conceding three first-half goals at home last weekend.

For the Courage, they finally have the 2025 NWSL Midfielder of the Year back in rotation, Manaka Matsukubo. Her return from international duty last week provided an immediate impact, scoring the Courage’s lone goal, and her ability to stretch defenses will be key against a Portland side that just reestablished its defensive identity. Alongside Matsukubo, Ashley Sanchez – her midfield partner – is just as important to the club’s offensive production.

Portland, meanwhile, looks steadier with Mackenzie Arnold back between the posts. Her immediate shutout last weekend – with her next tying a club record – shows she’s essential to a defense that will be tested by North Carolina’s movement. And on the frontlines, the Thorns have a bevy of tools in their arsenal: Olivia Moultrie, Reilyn Turner, and Sophia Wilson, who was making some dangerous runs last weekend in her first start since maternity leave.

Ultimately, it’s still early in the season so this matchup feels like a measuring stick for both sides. North Carolina is searching for stability while Portland is looking to prove its performance last weekend after the loss before it wasn’t a fluke.

How to Watch: ION

Seattle Reign FC are home and riding the high of back-to-back wins. But awaiting them is one of the new kids on the block: Denver Summit FC. They’ve been looking dangerous in their first four games – organized and disciplined despite only having been together for a few months. They’re also still unbeaten in their last two.

Seattle’s attack is beginning to finally click, with Maddie Mercado scoring in consecutive matches and Nerilia Mondesir also adding a goal. Add in Ainsley McCammon, who last weekend became the youngest Reign player to record an assist, and the Reign suddenly have a dynamic, multi-layered frontline to test even the stingiest defense.

Denver, meanwhile, has demonstrated a very well-balanced squad built around a solid defense, an experienced goalkeeper, and a feisty offense. And after the club’s first win in their midweek match followed by a record-setting crowd of over 63,000 fans at Mile High Stadium, the Summit have shown they’re here and they can play with the best of them. It’s the first-ever meeting between one of the league’s original clubs and one of the league’s newest, and one you won’t want to miss.

How to Watch: ESPN2, ESPN Deportes, ESPN App

The perfect cap to the weekend kicks off in the Bay Area on Sunday evening between Bay FC, who struggled last season to generate offense but have been firing on all cylinders this season, and the Washington Spirit, who made it to the championship last November but since then are still hunting for their first win of the new season. This is also the Spirit’s return to the grounds where they saw their second championship run in two years end. If there’s ever a moment to reset the tone of 2026, it’s this game.

Last weekend, Bay FC delivered a statement performance, scoring three first-half goals for the first time in club history. Much of that spark has come from Alex Pfeiffer — one of the youngest players in the league, but already one of its most impactful. Her goal and assist last weekend and her opening goal in Week 1, paired with Claire Hutton’s ability to manipulate the midfield, has made this squad the most exciting it’s ever looked, something Bay FC fans have been enjoying lately. Paired with Jordan Silkowitz’s athleticism, Taylor Huff back from suspension, and Keira Barry making a difference either as a starter or sub, they're dangerous, especially for a Spirit that is still trying to find its 2026 identity.

The Spirit, though, are far from out of answers. Trinity Rodman remains one of the most dangerous attackers in the league, even as she searches for her first goal of the season, and players like Rosemonde Kouassi and Sofia Cantore bring the kind of creativity that can stretch any backline and also, just absolutely obliterate a goal from distance. This is a squad that shouldn’t be taken lightly and has historically been a team that travels well.
