Matchweek 17 was incredibly close. Out of eight matches, two were 1-1 draws and five were decided by only one goal. Translation: we’re halfway through the season, and no game is predictable. With the midweek games in the rear view mirror, let’s see what the weekend brings.

San Diego Wave vs. Utah Royals - Friday, August 21 | 10:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Kansas City Current vs. Seattle Reign - Saturday, August 22 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

North Carolina Courage vs. Boston Legacy - Saturday, August 22 | 7:30 PM ET (NWSL+)

Portland Thorns vs. Denver Summit - Saturday, August 22 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

Chicago Stars vs. Racing Louisville - Sunday, August 23 | 2:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Washington Spirit vs. Orlando Pride - Sunday, August 23 | 4:00 PM ET (ESPN2, ESPN app)

Bay FC vs. Houston Dash - Sunday, August 23 | 6:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Angel City vs. Gotham FC - Sunday, August 23 | 8:00 PM ET (ION)

If Washington loses against Orlando and Utah wins against San Diego, Utah will jump to second place and bump Washington to third.

If Seattle loses against Kansas City and Houston wins against Bay FC, Houston will claim the last playoff spot.

If Seattle and Houston both lose, Angel City can steal the last playoff spot with a win.

Why it matters: While the top teams continue to duke it out for the Shield, competition for the playoff spots has gotten closer than ever. Four points separate the last playoff spot from 13th place, meaning any movement will seriously affect teams’ chances at the playoffs. Even teams that are just now finding their groove are still in the running for the postseason. Buckle up for an exciting race to the finish.

Only winning two matches before the summer break, Racing Louisville’s run of form could not have come at a better time. Louisville has won their past four matches, including a statement 4-1 victory over Boston in Matchweek 17. Boosted by a renewed attacking trio of Emma Sears, Katie O’Kane and Kayla Fischer, Racing has finally found its footing.

The Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON) has come to an end, and this means many of the NWSL’s best are back. Temwa Chawinga will be returning to Kansas City after winning the WAFCON Golden Boot and helping Malawi qualify for their first-ever World Cup. Deborah Abiodun, Gift Monday, and Rose Kouassi will return to a Washington Spirit side who sorely missed them. New Spirit signing Monique Ngock not only won WAFCON with Cameroon, but won player of the WAFCON final. After a great tournament, it couldn’t be a better time for these players to come back with so much to play for at club level.

Colorado natives Lindsey Heaps and Sophia Wilson will go head-to-head when the Portland Thorns take on the Denver Summit. In the clubs’ first ever meeting, two Coloradans got on the scoresheet: Sophia Wilson scored Portland’s lone goal of the match, while Janine Sonis contributed one goal to Denver’s 2-1 win. Will all 3 Coloradans get goals this time?

And Heaps will return to Providence Park for the first time since rejoining the NWSL on the night of Tobin Heath's retirement ceremony. Get your tissues, Thorns fans.

Ashley Sanchez and Evelyn Ijeh are on fire for North Carolina this season. Out of the Courage’s 34 goals, they’ve scored 21 of them. Sanchez has scored 11 and Ijeh 10, putting Sanchez in second place for the Golden Boot race and Ijeh tied for third with Trinity Rodman. Only one of the Courage’s nine wins did not involve either Sanchez or Ijeh on the scoresheet, which shows how vital they are to the Courage’s success this season.
