NEW YORK (July 10, 2023)

– In an alliance designed to support athletes on and off the field, the National Women’s Soccer League and wellness technology leader Therabody today announced their official partnership. Together, the NWSL and Therabody plan to better understand the unique needs of women athletes and help reduce gender inequity in sports by investing in bespoke research and by ensuring that the NWSL athletes have the same access to Therabody technologies and education as their male counterparts.

NEW YORK (July 10, 2023) –

In an alliance designed to support athletes on and off the field, the National Women’s Soccer League and wellness technology leader Therabody today announced their official partnership. Together, the NWSL and Therabody plan to better understand the unique needs of women athletes and help reduce gender inequity in sports by investing in bespoke research and by ensuring that the NWSL athletes have the same access to Therabody technologies and education as their male counterparts. <br>As part of the agreement, Therabody will become NWSL’s Official Wellness Technology Partner, and will make recovery devices such as Theragun PRO, WaveRoller and RecoveryAir JetBoots available on the sidelines at all NWSL matches. Therabody is also making a significant investment to provide additional products, such as the FDA cleared PowerDot that helps alleviate period pain, RecoveryTherm Knee and RecoveryTherm Back and Core, among others, to every player in the league. Therabody’s technologies can help players recover after leaving it all on the field, alleviate everyday aches and pains and support them in their everyday lives. <br>“The NWSL is excited to partner with Therabody with the shared goal of advancing player health and safety and providing athletes with the optimal tools to succeed on and off the pitch,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “This partnership will not only provide our players with access to the cutting-edge wellness and recovery technology they deserve as world-class athletes, but will also help to support our mission to conduct the crucially important research needed to better address our approaches to player healthcare needs, including injury prevention and recovery.” <br>Not only does this symbiotic partnership support the whole athlete, including beyond the field, but it also works to reduce the inequities seen in sports recovery. As a company born out of finding non-invasive solutions to pain and recovery, Therabody is committed to making a meaningful impact on women’s mental and physical wellness in a way that is unique to them. The differences between support for male and female athlete recovery are as stark as the facts around their health. For example, 6% of athletic performance research focuses on women, despite women making up 40% of professional athletes. <br>"Therabody came on board with Angel City very early on in our journey, and has been an incredible, active partner to us from day one. To see them continue to grow their support in women's soccer now at a league level is a testament to the commitment Therabody has to women's football and the incredible athletes we cheer on daily on field. To now have access to some of the best recovery products available is something our players and all NWSL players and staff are excited about and grateful for as it will help them be the best they can be every day,” commented Julie Uhrman, co-founder and president of Angel City Football Club. <br>“Our goal is to support women athletes on and off the field and to be a voice for equality around sports recovery,” said Dr. Jason Werlsand, Therabody founder and chief wellness officer. “Women's soccer is as big a world stage as there is. We are proud to be an official partner of the NWSL to help bolster the players’ self care.” <br>The partnership will be further enriched as NWSL’s Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Cindy Chang, becomes one of Therabody’s medical advisors and NWSL fans will receive education and special offers on Therabody products to help promote their own health and wellness. <br>In partnering with the wellness leader Therabody, the NWSL is exemplifying their commitment to equity in sports and to serving and supporting the whole player. Therabody is driven by a belief in wellness equality and works to champion access to innovative wellness solutions that can help every body move - and feel - better. <br>About Therabody <br>Therabody® is the wellness technology leader with a mission to inspire and enable every body and mind to keep moving. Founded by Dr. Jason Wersland who invented the category-defining percussive therapy device, Theragun®, to alleviate his own debilitating pain after a traumatic accident, the company's product and content ecosystem has expanded beyond muscle recovery into hardware, proprietary software, digital content, and biometrics, that have proven benefits for body and mind. <br>Science is in Therabody's DNA; products and services are validated using modern science combined with internal and external research. One of TIME100 Most Influential Companies of 2023, Therabody's products and content are embraced by the medical community, sports and beauty industry leaders, and millions of consumers worldwide. Currently available in more than 60 countries, including at company-owned retail stores and at Reset®, a whole-body wellness and recovery center, the product line includes proprietary technologies and leverages biometrics for personalized real-time therapies. For more information, please download the Therabody App for iOS or Android , visit www.therabody.com , or follow @therabody on social media. <br>About National Women’s Soccer League <br>The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, OL Reign, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit. <br>
