If any sports city can appreciate a comeback win, it’s Boston. So of course it had to be a dramatic start for the Boston Legacy, who earned their first win in club history with a stoppage-time game-winner in Matchweek 6.

How can you not be romantic about fútbol?

The Boston Legacy earned their first three points in franchise history in spectacular style, defeating the Denver Summit after falling behind twice. It was Bianca St-Georges who would get the game-winning goal just before the final whistle for the 3-2 win.

The first half started with a laser shot from Yazmeen Ryan, her first with the Denver Summit. It wouldn’t be until the end of the half when Nichelle Prince would level it and open up her scoring account with the Legacy. The second half was a mirror of the first when Tash Flint scored the go-ahead goal 77 minutes in. Boston’s Aïssata Traoré Traoré would equalize in the final moments of regular time with a stunner that would go on to be Goal of the Week.

And then St-Georges came in to give the Legacy a walk-off win in front of their home crowd.

“That wasn’t even me. I felt like I had the whole team with me,” she said after the game. “The goals are team goals. We don’t have an individualistic team. We’re a team that’s together.”

Though it took until Matchweek 6 to get the win, the Legacy have been inching closer to this moment than their box scores may suggest. Against the Chicago Stars on April 25, a 2-0 loss, Boston outshot their opponent 28 to 6, which included eight shots on target. The Stars had two shots on goal – and both went in.

Against the North Carolina Courage just four days later, the Boston Legacy got a quick start. Both Alba Caño and Massachusetts native Sammy Smith scored their first NWSL goals to give the Boston Legacy a 2-0 lead before 15 minutes had passed. Prince assisted both goals before scoring an equalizer against the Summit.

The Courage came roaring back with two goals of their own, and though the Legacy earned their first point in club history, it wasn’t enough. That made the win all the sweeter.

“It’s almost like we had this pent up energy inside of us that we could not wait to let go. We knew that we deserved this win … it’s just the best feeling in the world,” St-Georges said. “It makes us want more. It makes us want to keep going and trusting what we’re doing. Feelings are immaculate right now.”
