NEW YORK (March 23, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League and Endeavor Streaming today announced a partnership to launch a global streaming service for viewers outside of the United States for the upcoming 2023 season that will make matches available free of charge for fans globally on NWSLSoccer.com. Additionally, the NWSL has announced two streaming deals with international distributors DAZN and Tigo, securing additional access to live NWSL matches for audiences across more than 25 countries around the world.

NEW YORK (March 23, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League and Endeavor Streaming today announced a partnership to launch a global streaming service for viewers outside of the United States for the upcoming 2023 season that will make matches available free of charge for fans globally on NWSLSoccer.com. Additionally, the NWSL has announced two streaming deals with international distributors DAZN and Tigo, securing additional access to live NWSL matches for audiences across more than 25 countries around the world.

“We are excited to put a global spotlight on the exceptional players who bring top tier competition and entertainment to the NWSL,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “Especially with this being a World Cup year, we’re looking forward to providing our global fanbase the opportunity to watch these players compete for their respective NWSL clubs before the World Cup competition begins and upon their return this summer.” In a pivotal year for women’s soccer, the agreement marks the first time the NWSL has launched its own global streaming offering for viewers outside of the United States. The service is powered by Endeavor Streaming’s platform and will stream live coverage for every league match during the 2023 season. “This partnership will deliver a scalable and high-quality international streaming platform that gives global soccer fans not in the United States a dedicated destination to watch all the best U.S. women’s soccer,” said Pete Bellamy, Endeavor Streaming Chief Commercial Officer. “We’re excited to continue our global momentum in women’s sport, helping some of the biggest leagues and federations in the world grow their audience, increase accessibility and build direct relationships with their fans.” A global sports entertainment platform, DAZN has acquired the non-exclusive broadcasting rights to NWSL matches in key markets including Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Japan, UK, France, Belgium, Portugal as well as Scandinavia (Norway, Denmark, Sweden), Brazil and the Netherlands, for the 2023 season. NWSL coverage will appear non-exclusively on Central American-based distributor Tigo in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. In addition to coverage of the regular season, DAZN and Tigo will also air the NWSL Playoffs presented by Bud Light as well as the 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup, as well as additional non-live content. Coverage kicks off on Saturday March 25, as the North Carolina Courage take on the Kansas City Current in the official NWSL 2023 season opener.

Get more details on how to watch the 2023 NWSL matches
