NEW YORK (July 16, 2024) – A record 56 players from the National Women’s Soccer League will represent their respective nations on the international stage as the 2024 Olympic Women’s Soccer tournament kicks off Thursday, July 25, in Paris, France. Boasting the most players of any league in the world, NWSL stars account for nearly one quarter of the Olympic player pool.

The NWSL’s record representation comes on the heels of several strategic moves made over the past 12 months to secure the league’s position as the international destination for top-tier players, including an increased number of international roster slots, a significant increase in the salary cap for the 2024 season and further investments across key business and sporting functions including coaching, commercial and media.

Notably, every NWSL team will have a representative in this year’s tournament, highlighting the depth of talent across the league. Additionally, as the NWSL continues to be a destination for rising stars and the next generation of talent, more than half of the league’s first-time Olympic participants are 24 years old or younger.

NWSL x Olympic Roster Highlights:

56 NWSL players will feature in this year’s tournament, more than any other league in the world.

Eleven of 12 national team rosters include players from the NWSL.

All 26 matches in the tournament, including the medal round contests, will feature at least one NWSL player on team rosters.

NJ/NY Gotham FC and the Orlando Pride lead the way in representation with seven players named to national team squads, while Portland Thorns FC and the Washington Spirit each sent six players to the Games.

After the U.S. Women’s National Team, Team Canada has the most NWSL athletes on its roster with 10, including Canada captain and Thorns midfielder Jessie Fleming, as well as new Chicago Red Stars acquisition Julia Grosso, who joins the Red Stars from Serie A club Juventus.

Orlando Pride striker and Brazilian legend Marta, the most veteran NWSL player in this year’s tournament, will make her sixth and final appearance at the Games. The 38-year-old superstar has appeared in every Olympics since 2004. Angel City FC defender and New Zealand captain Ali Riley is set to make her fifth tournament appearance.

The North Carolina Courage boasts players on five different national teams. Courage defenders Sydney Collins and Feli Rauch were called up to Team Canada and Team Germany rosters, respectively, while U.S. goalkeeper Casey Murphy and Australian striker Cortnee Vine are set to appear in their first-ever Olympic Games. Making her return to the pitch after an ACL injury, reigning NWSL MVP Kerolin was named to Brazil’s squad. Utah Royals FC and Portland each have representatives on four different national teams. Utah’s Macy Fraser (New Zealand), Amandine Henry (France), Ify Onumonu (Nigeria) and Mina Tanaka (Japan) were named to their respective squads, while Portland’s Janine Beckie and Jessie Fleming (Canada), Sam Coffey and Sophia Smith (USA), Mackenzie Arnold (Australia) and Nicole Payne (Nigeria) will feature on the Olympic stage for the Thorns.

Eight NWSL players on Team Canada will look to earn back-to-back Olympic gold, including Seattle Reign FC’s Jordyn Huitema and Quinn, Thorns headliners Beckie and Fleming, San Diego Wave FC goalkeeper Kailen Sheridan, Kansas City Current midfielder Nichelle Prince, Spirit back Gabrielle Carle and Chicago midfielder Julia Grosso.

Returning to the Olympics for the first time since 2008, the Nigerian women’s national team includes players from Bay FC, the Houston Dash, Portland, Racing Louisville FC and Utah, including star striker Asisat Oshoala, who scored 117 goals with Spanish side Barcelona before joining the Northern California-based expansion club in the 2023 offseason.

A full list of NWSL players competing in the 2024 Olympic Games can be found below.

2024 Olympic Women’s Soccer Tournament Rosters

\Bold denotes Olympic debut\
