It’s never too late to get your cap, and Lo’eau LaBonta is living proof.

At the crisp age of 32, LaBonta became the oldest player ever to make her debut for the US Women’s National Team when she subbed into a friendly against China PR on May 31.

Before stepping onto the pitch, LaBonta was just happy to be there with the best seat in the house for the match.

“I was sitting being the best cheerleader I could be on the bench,” she said after the game. “I was like, ‘This is amazing!’ I’ve never been field-view watching the national team.”

When she was told to get ready to go, LaBonta was so taken aback that she asked where she was going. In an unusual moment, the Kansas City captain and veteran was a wide-eyed rookie again.

That awe, though, comes from her pure love of the game. It’s why she didn’t give up after being waived in 2015 by Sky Blue FC (now Gotham FC), and it’s how she ended up making history this weekend.

“I said this quote the other day, being stubborn in the most positive way possible. My rookie season I got cut and I was like, ‘This isn’t the end of my soccer career,’” LaBonta said. “I love soccer so much … It’s so fun and it’s constantly developing and changing and growing. I think that’s me as a person and human being as well.”

That stubbornness paid off in the second half of the game.

In the 70th minute of the match, LaBonta ran into position and was greeted by a roaring crowd, thrilled to see her get her due. From the pitch, LaBonta could feel the love from fans.

“I definitely did get chills when I heard that coming on,” she said.

Despite the unique experience of being a veteran player making her USWNT debut, LaBonta said Head Coach Emma Hayes helped light a fire.

“What Emma does really well, what I’ve heard from a lot of people getting their first cap, she just gives them that little extra motivation,” LaBonta said. “That was special, so shoutout to her for first calling me in. Shoutout to her again for choosing to play me. I could do this all day.”

In her postgame interviews, LaBonta was beaming, talking about the moment. Though she’s the oldest player to make their debut for the national team, LaBonta isn’t riding into the sunset of her career. She plans on going and going and going.

Her love of the game – and yes, her stubborn nature – are just too strong for her to quit the game.

“Someone’s gotta kick me out,” she said, laughing. “I’m not leaving.”
