NEW YORK (July 3, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, for the month of June by the NWSL Media Association and the league’s on-air broadcast talent. Headlined by Player of the Month Esther González, eight teams are represented in the league’s Top 11.

GK – Lorena (KC): In 270 minutes played in June, Lorena added another clean sheet, her sixth of the year, and conceded only three goals, helping the Current remain perfect at home this season.

D – Jordyn Bugg (SEA): The second-year defender played every minute in June and scored a late-game equalizer to give Seattle a draw against Chicago.

D – Caprice Dydasco (BAY): Dydasco earns her first Best XI honors of the year with 11 interceptions in June alone.

D – Courtney Petersen (LOU): Peterson played all but four minutes in June, contributing to both Racing wins this month with two assists.

D – Kayla Sharples (KC): In three Kansas City wins in June, Sharples won 100% of attempted tackles and made 12 clearances.

M – Sam Coffey (POR): Coffey earns a spot in the Best XI for the second month in a row, notching an assist on the game-winning goal against Chicago.

M – Kenza Dali (SD): The French national played a full 270 minutes in June and earned her second goal of the season against the Dash.

M – Manaka Matsukubo (NC): A goal and two assists puts Matsukubo on the Best XI for the second month in a row.

F – Emeri Adames (SEA): Adames scored three goals in June, including a brace against Utah and a late game-winner against the San Diego Wave.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): Chawinga picked up in June where she left off in May, notching two goals and an assist.

F – Esther González (GFC): The NWSL Player of the Month scored three goals, including her fourth brace of the season, to extend her lead in the Golden Boot race.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league consistently, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of June are based on performances during regular season matches.
