The international break brought a brief pause to the NWSL season but the calm won’t last long. This weekend, the league returns full force for Decision Day, the last regular season game day where seven games are played on one day, and if history is any indicator, it’ll surely be a chaotic one.

READ: NWSL Decision Day 101

Every goal, every save, every result matters and could impact the table. From teams fighting for the chance to host a playoff game to two teams fighting for one last playoff spot, everything is on the line.

Here’s what to expect from every matchup this Decision Day!

READ: Playoff Scenarios Headed into Decision Day

How do I watch live games on Decision Day?

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: ESPN, ESPN+

Kicking things off is a matchup between two teams who have already stamped their ticket to the playoffs – Kansas City Current and San Diego Wave. The Current are playing hosts, and in their stadium, where they haven’t lost a game since 2024, it’ll be a tough one for the visitors who until recently have struggled to put away their chances. However, if they bring the same firepower and energy they utilized against Chicago before the international window and keep the Current’s goal scorers locked down, they have a chance to come away with points. That means getting the ball to French phenom Delphine Cascarino, who has goals in three consecutive matches for the second time this season. A win or a draw helps the Wave’s chances to secure a playoff game next weekend.

And for the home team, the 2025 NWSL Shield Winners, sitting comfortably with 62 points, a favorable result could see them tie the longest-ever home unbeaten streak in league history. Their key players? Michelle Cooper – who just performed spectacularly for the USWNT in KC’s very own stadium earlier this week – along with Izzy Rodriguez – currently tied for assist leader with Cascarino – and goalkeeper Lorena, currently leading the league in clean sheets (14).

How to watch: NWSL+

The joy of Decision Day is that, regardless of what results a team needs to fall in their favor, everyone has to lay it all on the line. Clubs won’t know if the results went their way until their own matches are over.

North Carolina will need Racing Louisville to lose or draw to have a shot of earning that eighth and final playoff spot, but the Courage still have to do their part. Two points behind Racing, the club cannot lose. The rise of 21-year-old Manaka Matsukubo has been fast and furious for North Carolina. In Week 25, Manaka became the youngest player in league history to score a hat trick, making a late push for the Golden Boot.

On the other side of the pitch, Gotham already punched their ticket to the postseason, but homefield advantage is the dangling carrot at the end of Decision Day – with a win (and a few other results that day), Gotham can secure a home playoff game next weekend. Esther Gonzalez carried the Gotham offense through the first half of the season, but scoring has been distributed more evenly of late. Rose Lavelle, for one, has found the back of the net four times since September. Expect Gotham to put the Courage’s backline to the test, led by soon-to-be four-time ironwoman Kaleigh Kurtz.

This is the first time these teams will face off since the Courage traded Jaedyn Shaw to Gotham. Will Shaw play a role in ending her former club’s playoff hopes? It’s a juicy added layer to one of the day’s most important games. Sports are fun.

How to watch: NWSL+

Racing Louisville have never had a season as successful as this one, and it just might take a team who has already broken club records to make history again. With the eighth seed up for grabs, it’s down to Louisville or North Carolina, and if Racing wins, they’re in – for the very first time.

Under head coach Bev Yanez, Racing’s surge has them within striking distance of a playoff run. Emma Sears has been holding down the offense all season long, and if she can carry the momentum from the international break (which included a hat trick) into the final game of the regular season, Bay’s defense is in for a battle. With the 6’2” Taylor Flint controlling the midfield, Racing's offensive front is strong when everything is clicking.

Bay FC is already eliminated, but with the NWSL Championship taking place on their home turf in just a few short weeks, they’ll be fighting to close the season with their heads held high. Bay have gone without a win since June, so ending the regular season with a W would be the silver lining on a tough season. Plus, who doesn’t want to play spoiler?

On both sides, there is a Jordan (or Jordyn) in net, wrapping up her first year as an NWSL starter. For Racing, Jordyn Bloomer’s breakout year has been a difference-maker. With highlight reel saves week after week, Bloomer doesn’t make it easy on opposing offenses. Jordan Silkowitz, on the other gloved hand, has saved both of her penalty kicks faced this season and after only ever being a backup goalkeeper, has firmly won the starting spot for Bay FC with 23 games started between the posts. She’s had four shutouts this season and has made 69 saves, a club record. This season may not have been what Silkowitz and Bay had hoped for but it’s experience all the same and lessons have been learned by the young squad.

How to watch: NWSL+

The No. 2 seeded Washington Spirit head west to face the Utah Royals, with both teams entering the weekend with their fates for next weekend already decided. Utah, already eliminated from the postseason, will be playing their final game of the season this weekend; on the other side of the field, the Spirit know they’ll be playing home next weekend for their quarterfinal matchup, and a win this weekend will set the tone favorably for them.

Washington sit second in the standings and before last weekend, were unbeaten in 12 matches. Still, they’re untouchable on the road, having only lost once this season outside of Audi Field. Gift Monday, Croix Bethune, and Rosemonde Kouassi will surely play large roles in the final regular season match for a team that went all the way last season but fell by a goal in the Championship match.

But just because the Royals are out doesn’t mean they’re a team to take lightly. They’ve found their rhythm since the end of summer, earning 17 points in the second half of the season thanks to the leadership and heart of captain Paige Monaghan – who’s scored six goals since late August – and the goal scoring talents of Mina Tanaka and Janni Thomsen. Goalkeeper Mandy McGlynn, with her acrobatics and courage defending the posts, has also been pivotal in many late season matches, and expect her to pull out all the stops this weekend against a team full of goal scorers and shot takers.

How to watch: NWSL+

The Thorns return home this Sunday to close out a regular season full of ups and downs. If it all goes according to their game plan, however, it may not be the last game Providence Park sees this season. The Thorns are still in contention for a top 4 seed and a win or even a draw would go a long way in their favor of achieving that.

But they’ll be facing a Houston team still riding the high of toppling the league leaders, KC Current, before the international break. Ryan Gareis netted her first-ever NWSL goal that day, but she isn’t the only goal scoring threat on the roster. Yazmeen Ryan, Avery Patterson, and Clarissa Larisey all have the ability to find the back of a net and cause havoc. Jane Campbell, on the other end of the field, is a few saves away from hitting a major benchmark – 600 career saves.

Portland has dominated this matchup, winning the last three duels by multiple goals, and with the young Olivia Moultrie firing on all cylinders for club and country and who can score from any distance in the park, it’ll be a tough one for the visitors, especially in one of the most boisterous stadiums in the league.

How to watch: NWSL+

It’s a battle for home field advantage in Orlando. With both the Pride and Reign already earning playoff spots, this match will determine if either will get to play in front of a friendly crowd in the first round of the playoffs. If Kansas City wins earlier in the day, the winner of this game will decide who earns third place.

The Pride enter the weekend sitting third with 39 points, fresh off a statement 3-2 win over the Spirit after a midseason dip that made many question if the reigning NWSL Champions would be able to run it back to defend their title. Marta, who scored the decisive penalty last game, continues to lead her team when she’s on the field. With Kylie Strom and Emily Sams anchoring a defense that’s found their form again.

Seattle, meanwhile, arrive in Florida with a four-game unbeaten streak. Their attack is fueled by the youth – Emeri Adames with six goals, Ainsley McCammon who scored her first NWSL goal last game, Jordyn Bugg, and the rookie Maddie Dahlien. Veterans Jess Fishlock and the beloved Lauren Barnes, whose retirement looms in the offseason, provide the experience to a team in transition. Both clubs are postseason-bound but the match carries weight still – playoff seeding, homefield advantage, and confidence are all on the line.

How to watch: NWSL+

The 2025 season didn’t quite go the way either Chicago or Angel City might have hoped, with both teams eliminated from playoff contention. While this matchup doesn’t impact the larger results, these clubs both have reason for wanting to end the season on a high note.

The Stars mounted a stunning second half of the season that saw them come back from behind repeatedly and in dramatic fashion. There were goalkeeper goals, an incredibly fast hat trick, and classic NWSL chaos. This will be the final game at SeatGeek Stadium before the club moves to their new home, Northwestern Medicine Field at Martin Stadium, for the 2026 season. There is no better farewell to the loyal Stars fans than closing down this chapter with a victory.

Ludmila has 10 goals on the season, and this is her final chance to add to her season total and move up the Golden Boot standings. Keeper Alyssa Naeher will be playing her first game since celebrating her international retirement from the US Women’s National Team in Hartford. Bea Franklin and Jameese Joseph each have three goals going into the final game, each scoring the lone Chicago goals in the club’s last two matches.

Angel City rookie Riley Tiernan came out the gate of the 2025 season a Rookie of the Year candidate. She broke onto the scene, hardly skipping a beat and performing with the poise of a veteran. Her eight goals lead all rookies, and with one game left to add to her stat sheet, expect Tiernan to make one final push. In Week 25, Angel City celebrated two legends of the game, but Sunday is the final time Ali Riley and Christen Press can take the pitch. Will we see one more run from two beloved players? Tune in Sunday to find out.
