Last weekend, fans across the league were treated to an entertaining and competitive opening weekend full of energetic crowds, high quality goals, epic goal line clearances, and some dramatic upsets. Next weekend is surely going to deliver more of the same. Check out our preview below to get caught up on all the storylines of week 2.

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans located in Australia, can watch here.

Friday, March 22

Matchup: Orlando Pride vs. Angel City FC - 8:00 PM ET Where to Watch: Prime Video

Orlando Pride clawed back from a two-goal deficit last weekend in Louisville, showing their squad of internationals, league vets, and rookies has what it takes to compete. The momentum is on their side, as is the home field advantage, when they host Angel City FC Friday night.

After losing by a single goal against an expansion team in their home opener, Angel City FC will have had a week to diagnose issues with defending and goal scoring. They’ll be looking to implement all their lessons learned and grab a win on the road in Orlando in what some are calling the Disney Derby (and if no one is calling it that, they should).

Check out Orlando Pride’s full schedule here.

Matchup: Utah Royals vs. North Carolina Courage - 9:30 PM ET Where to Watch: NWSL+

The good news for Utah? They’re home again. The bad news? They’re hosting one of the most clinically attacking teams in the league, North Carolina Courage. They’ll have a week to get their very young squad up to the task of defending and counter-pressing against a skilled and experienced opponent.

As for North Carolina? If they can repeat what they did last weekend at home, they’re solid.

Check out Utah Royals FC’s full schedule here.

Saturday, March 23

Matchup: Chicago Red Stars vs. Seattle Reign FC - 4:00 PM ET Where to Watch: NWSL+

This is not the Chicago Red Stars of 2023. The offseason and 2024 have been very good to Lorne Donaldson’s squad, and with new ownership and the return of their star, Mal Swanson, it seems all the pieces are falling into place. They’ll be hosting a very experienced Reign FC this weekend in their home opener, but with Alyssa Naeher at their backs and an impressive lineup of attackers and rookies ready to make their debuts, Chicago might be up to the task of sending their opponents back to rainy Washington with an L. It’ll be a must-watch for any league fans excited to witness the Red Stars’ new era.

Check out Chicago Red Stars’ full schedule here.

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs. Bay FC - 7:30 PM ET Where to Watch: ION

Spirit gave up a penalty in the first minute of regulation and then lost their starting goalkeeper to a red card at the end of the match isn’t ideal. but the young squad never allowed another goal into the back of their net. They’ll have to shake it off and turn their eyes to the next game, but this time with their goal scoring prodigy, Trinity Rodman, on the field.

However, the momentum is on Bay FC’s side, who just won their first ever match against California rivals, Angel City FC. They’ll be looking to replicate that result on their first trip to the East Coast, before heading home for their inaugural home opener the following weekend.

Check out Washington Spirits’ full schedule here.

Matchup: Houston Dash vs. Racing Louisville - 8:30 PM ET Where to Watch: NWSL+

New head coach Bev Yanez, a familiar name to many NWSL fans, will have a week to workshop things with her team before they fly to Houston to take on the Dash. Her squad scored two clinical back-to-back goals in the first half of their match against Orlando last weekend but unfortunately for them, they allowed Orlando to claw their way back to a tie.

On the other side of the pitch, Houston is returning home after a devastating loss in North Carolina. But this isn’t a team to take lightly, they will have learned from their mistakes, and with the added motivation of giving their home fans a win, the Dash will be extra threatening as they seek to get Mexican internationals María Sánchez and Diana Ordóñez more involved in the attack.

Check out Houston Dash’s full schedule here.

Matchup: San Diego Wave vs. Kansas City Current - 10:00 PM ET Where to Watch: ION

San Diego Wave had a dream opening to 2024 last Friday when they lifted their first ever UKG NWSL Challenge Cup trophy in New Jersey. Although technically not a regular season result, the high of victory will surely be a factor when they host Kansas City Current at Snapdragon this weekend. But Kansas City also is coming off of a huge victory after having beaten Portland in their brand new stadium, CPKC Stadium, and scoring five high-quality goals against the league titans. The question will be, who will want this victory more?

Another factor? Kansas City may have beaten Portland by five goals but they also gave up four goals as well. They’ll have to do some work on defense before they fly to Southern California and take on the 2023 NWSL Shield Winners and current NWSL Challenge Cup champs.

Check out San Diego Wave’s full schedule here.

Sunday, March 24

Matchup: Portland Thorns vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 7:00 PM ET Where to Watch: ESPN2, ESPN+, ESPN Deportes

It’s a 2023 NWSL semifinal rematch and what will surely be a game to watch for fans across the league. Last season, Gotham FC beat Portland in front of the Thorns’ own fans to move on to the 2023 NWSL Championship in San Diego, where they’d eventually leave as champions. Portland, meanwhile, ended their season with more questions than answers. Over the offseason, they went to work and came away with new owners and new signees. Will it be enough to challenge the league champs?

But Gotham FC also was busy in the offseason, signing four USWNT stars–Crystal Dunn (who will be making her first return to Portland after having previously called it home), Tierna Davidson, Emily Sonnett, and Rose Lavelle. The squad looked competitive in their preseason matches and a little shaky in their 2024 NWSL Challenge Cup match against San Diego but by now, head coach Juan Carlos Amorós will have had time to reflect and implement lessons learned. But one thing is for sure, once this squad’s chemistry is perfected, they’ll be a team to watch (and fear).

Check out Portland Thorns’ full schedule here.
