NEW YORK – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and Front Office Sports (FOS), the leading multiplatform media and news organization covering the business of sports, today announced a content partnership that will deliver fans deeper access to the business stories shaping women’s soccer as the league’s popularity continues to rise.

Through this partnership, FOS will produce original content tied to key NWSL moments and marquee events, bringing women's soccer fans rich and dynamic storytelling across its ecosystem of social, video, website, newsletter and events.

“We’re delighted to partner with Front Office Sports. This collaboration gives us another platform to showcase our world-class players while highlighting the business momentum and growth of the NWSL,” said NWSL Director of Media Partnerships Servi Barrientos. “As soccer continues to build global momentum, partnerships like this help bring the stories shaping the women’s game to more fans.”

“We’re thrilled to partner with the National Women’s Soccer League at a pivotal moment for both the league and the business of women’s sports,” said Adam White, CEO of Front Office Sports. “Our mission is to showcase the deals, decisions and dynamics that are captivating women's soccer fans - whether they're advanced, avid fans driving record attendance at stadiums around the country, or the casual, cultured fans who follow these powerful athletes' every move off the pitch."

FOS's partnership with the NWSL follows similar content collaborations between the outlet and other professional sports organizations, including the NFL.

ABOUT FRONT OFFICE SPORTS

Front Office Sports is the leading multiplatform media and news organization covering the business of sports, boasting an audience that every month delivers more than 200 million social impressions, 35 million newsletter opens, 50 million video views, and 2.5 million page views. In addition, with more than 15 distribution partners, FOS content appears on screens in more than 50,000 buildings and venues across North America. Front Office Sports was named one of Fast Company's Most Innovative Companies in 2021, AdWeek's Hottest in Sports in 2022, and listed on Inc. 5000 in 2023 and 2025, recognizing the fastest-growing private companies in America.

ABOUT THE NATIONAL WOMEN’S SOCCER LEAGUE

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, NWSL Atlanta, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.
