The NWSL girlies know how to make a statement with their match day fits, but there was something extra special about the Jaedyn Shaw's Week 9 look. In honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, Shaw wore a custom-made piece celebrating her Vietnamese heritage, turning her jersey into an áo dài.

An áo dài is a symbol of beauty, femininity, and tradition. The long, split tunic flows over pants to create an elegant formalwear look. It's not typically a fashion piece associated with soccer, but no one tell Vietnamese-American designer Thái Nguyễn that.

Shaw and her stylist, Sydney Bordonaro, worked with Nguyễn to find an organic way to honor her culture through an outfit. Then, Nguyễn had an idea.

"I proposed the idea of transforming her personal soccer jersey—complete with her name and number—into the áo dài itself. Her jersey is more than just part of her uniform; it is her identity," he said. "This collaboration was about fusing tradition with the modern symbols of her life as a young, professional athlete. The jersey fabric was a perfect choice: breathable, stretchy, vibrant, and beautifully flattering on her skin tone. It captured her style, her vibe, and her journey."

Shaw's mother is Vietnamese-born, while her father is African American. Growing up in Texas, she knew and loved her mom's family, but struggled to find a place in the culture.

"I spent a lot of time on that side of the family. In doing that, I was taught the value of family and loving one another no matter what. With that being said, I wasn’t fully submerged into the culture," Shaw said. "As a little Black girl I didn’t always know how to embrace or show that side of me - that people can’t necessarily see. Now as I’ve gotten older, wearing the áo dài has been that for me."

She sure is embracing that culture now. The áo dài jersey is something unique and that both she and Nguyễn are proud of.

"This collaboration was filled with care, creativity, and deep respect from start to finish. I truly believe we created something historic: the first-ever Áo Dài Jersey, a piece that celebrates culture, heritage, and athletic excellence all in one," Nguyễn said. "It was the perfect harmony of past and present—and above all, it was authentically Jaedyn."

Despite struggling as a kid with her identity as a Black Vietnamese American, Shaw is growing into every aspect of her culture and shining a light on it. It is something to be proud of, she said.

"It means the world to me that I can represent ALL of me, not just based off of what people see on the outside," Shaw said. "I am proud to be a Vietnamese American and African American woman. I didn’t grow up having many role models that look like me or have similar backgrounds so it’s a blessing that I can be that person for others."

Nguyễn agreed with that idea.

"I’m especially proud of Jaedyn—not just for all the hard work she’s poured into her soccer career, but for the pride and confidence she shows in her identity as a Vietnamese American at such a young age," Nguyễn said. "That kind of self-awareness and strength speaks volumes. It’s deeply inspiring, and it reminds me why I do what I do."
