Below is a selection of moments to watch for and notes to know entering Week 3 of NWSL regular season action. Week 3 match coverage begins Friday, March 29 as the Orlando Pride host the Chicago Red Stars at Inter&Co Stadium. Kickoff is slated for 7 p.m. ET on NWSL+.

Below is a selection of moments to watch for and notes to know entering Week 3 of NWSL regular season action. Week 3 match coverage begins Friday, March 29 as the Orlando Pride host the Chicago Red Stars at Inter&Co Stadium. Kickoff is slated for 7 p.m. ET on NWSL+.

NOTES TO KNOW

TUNE IN

Viewers tuning in to the NWSL this season can catch more than 120 matches across CBS, ESPN, ION and Prime Video. The remaining matches will be available for free on NWSL+, the league’s first-ever domestic direct-to-consumer streaming platform. Full details on how to watch all Week 3 matches can be found here.

PLAYOFF REMATCHES

This weekend’s slate of games features two rematches from the 2023 NWSL Playoffs. San Diego Wave FC hosts Seattle Reign FC at Snapdragon Stadium on Friday night in a rematch of last year’s semifinal. San Diego won the NWSL Shield last season but fell to Seattle (formerly known as OL Reign) in the playoffs behind a game-winning goal from forward Veronica Latsko, who extended her contract with Seattle through 2025 this offseason. The North Carolina Courage host the defending Champion NJ/NY Gotham FC on Saturday night at WakeMed Soccer Park. The two clubs matched up in last year’s quarterfinals, with Gotham FC upsetting the higher-seeded Courage behind goals from midfielders Delanie Sheehan and Yazmeen Ryan, who both signed new contracts with the club during the offseason.

BRING IT TO THE BAY

Bay FC will welcome fans to PayPal Park for the first time on Saturday night, as the expansion side hosts the Houston Dash in its first home match. The club expects a sellout crowd in its first game at PayPal Park, reporting 18,000 tickets sold. A historic moment for Bay FC will also be a reunion for Joelle Anderson and Caprice Dydasco, who both joined the club this offseason after two seasons in Houston. Anderson made 26 regular season appearances across two seasons with Houston, scoring two goals in 15 starts, while Dydasco led the NWSL in tackles won (45) and interceptions (45), while leading the Dash in passing (871) last season.

TEENS IN TOWN

The Kansas City Current and Angel City FC match up on Saturday at CPKC Stadium. The two clubs have a combined six teenagers on their rosters, including Alex Pfeiffer, the NWSL’s youngest goal scorer in regular season history. Pfeiffer’s Current teammate, 18-year-old midfielder Claire Hutton, has played every minute for Kansas City this season, recording 65 successful passes, 13 possessions won and seven tackles won across her first two professional games. Angel City’s Alyssa and Gisele Thompson made history in Week 1, becoming the first siblings to play on the same team in an NWSL game. Alyssa turned heads last season, finishing as a Rookie of the Year finalist, while Gisele signed her first professional contract this offseason and made her NWSL debut in the season opener. Coach Becki Tweed started 17-year-old midfielder Kennedy Fuller in each of her club’s first two matches. Fuller recorded five shots and four scoring chances created while completing 34 passes across her first two appearances. Angel City fans await the debut of 16-year-old forward Casey Phair, who started for South Korea at the 2023 Women’s World Cup, becoming the youngest player to suit up in the tournament’s history.

RED HOT ROOKIES

Sunday’s matchup between the Washington Spirit and Utah Royals FC will spotlight the NWSL’s impressive rookie class. Spirit rookies Croix Bethune and Hal Hershfelt, the third and fifth overall picks in the 2024 NWSL Draft, respectively, started each of the club’s first two games. Both players tallied their first professional goals last week, as Hershfelt scored in the 23rd minute and Bethune scored a game-winner in the closing moments of stoppage time to earn Washington’s first win of the season. Ally Sentnor, the top overall pick in 2024, has played every minute for the Royals to start her professional career. Sentnor scored her first NWSL goal last week, a game-winner against North Carolina, after leading Utah in crosses (8), possessions won (8), chances created (4) and tackles (3) in Week 1.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

CLUB MILESTONES

With Marta’s equalizer against Angel City last week, the Orlando Pride have scored 198 regular season goals in club history as they look to become the eighth club to reach 200 in the NWSL. The Washington Spirit have 49 shutouts in club history as they head into Sunday’s matchup with the Utah Royals seeking to become the sixth club to reach 50. Meanwhile, the Portland Thorns are one clean sheet away from becoming the first NWSL club to reach 75.

TEAMMATES ON TOP

Last year’s Goalkeeper of the Year Jane Campbell has earned 44 wins for the Houston Dash, and her next victory will break a tie with former FC Kansas City keeper and current Washington goalie Nicole Barnhart for the second-most by a keeper with one club. The record is held by Chicago Red Stars keeper Alyssa Naeher, who earned her 50th win with the club last week and looks to become the first goalkeeper to earn 40 shutouts for one club. Campbell and Naeher were teammates at the 2024 Concacaf W Gold Cup and will once again team up at the SheBelieves Cup.

REIGN RECORDS

Jess Fishlock has been with Seattle Reign FC since the NWSL’s inaugural season in 2013, scoring 42 goals, tied with Lynn Williams (North Carolina Courage) for the third most by any player for a single club. Fishlock’s 25 assists trail only her former teammate Megan Rapinoe (26) for the most with a single club. Her teammate and fellow NWSL “OG,” Lauren Barnes, has appeared in 99 wins and looks to become the first player to reach 100. Reign defender Sofia Huerta is tied for the NWSL’s all-time assists record (31) and her next assist will move her past Jess McDonald for the most in league history.

WEEK 3 MATCH SCHEDULE

Friday, March 29

Orlando Pride vs. Chicago Red Stars | Inter&Co Stadium | 7 p.m. ET | NWSL+ San Diego Wave FC vs. Seattle Reign FC | Snapdragon Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | Prime Video

Saturday, March 30

Kansas City Current vs. Angel City FC | CPKC Stadium | 3:30 p.m. ET | ESPN, ESPN+ North Carolina Courage vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | WakeMed Soccer Park | 7 p.m. ET | NWSL+ Portland Thorns FC vs. Racing Louisville FC | Providence Park | 7:30 p.m. ET | ION Bay FC vs. Houston Dash | PayPal Park | 10 p.m. ET | ION

Sunday, March 31

Washington Spirit vs. Utah Royals FC | Audi Field | 1 p.m. ET | NWSL+
