Week 9 kicks off with a bang — four matches on Friday night, each with its own must-watch storyline. It’s the perfect excuse to fire up every screen for a full night of NWSL action. Headlining the slate is the latest Rivalries presented by Ally clash: Orlando Pride vs. Kansas City Current. It’s quickly becoming one of the league’s most heated matchups, with Orlando ending KC’s playoff run in 2024 before hoisting a trophy in their stadium. And to close out the weekend, Sunday brings a NorCal vs. SoCal showdown as Bay FC hosts Angel City, both teams with a lot to play for. Here’s what to expect in Week 9!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: NWSL+

Gotham FC versus San Diego Wave are one of two matches kicking off the weekend at 7:30 PM ET and both are clubs stacked with international talent. Gotham FC enters the match after a loss on the road against Racing Louisville but have plenty of time to turn their fates around if they can get a win at home this weekend. Esther González is one brace away from tying the NWSL single-season record (4), while Ann-Katrin Berger could match Kailen Sheridan’s club record of 20 goalkeeper wins. On the other side, San Diego has found a rhythm offensively despite allowing a late game equalizer in Week 8. Keep an eye on 17-year-old Kimmi Ascanio, who scored her second goal in Week 8, and rookie Trinity Armstrong, whose game-winner in Week 7 lifted the Wave to a 2–1 win. She is surely a rookie to watch.

How to watch: NWSL+

Houston returns home after their first-ever clean sheet victory in Seattle, where rookie Maggie Graham scored her third NWSL goal, the game-winner. Graham remains one of the most impactful subs in the league. The Thorns, meanwhile, are unbeaten in their last four and led by the cool and collected rookie Jayden Perry, who’s converted three PKs this season — including two in stoppage time — the most of any rookie ever. Portland’s midfield, anchored by Sam Coffey and Hina Sugita, continues to drive attacking opportunities and create chances, as evident in Week 8 when Coffey drew the penalty that would ultimately steal them a point. With both teams searching for consistency, Friday’s matchup could come down to who wins the midfield battle.

How to watch: Prime Video

The league’s top two teams face off in Orlando in the latest Rivalries presented by Ally showdown, and with firepower up front and grit at the back on both sides, this one promises fireworks. Barbra Banda leads the league in shots and has scored five times already, while Marta continues to shine as a timeless playmaker, nearing her 20th career assist. But this fixture comes with some tense history: Orlando went unbeaten against Kansas City in 2024, earning a 2–1 win on the road, a scoreless draw at home, and a thrilling 3–2 semifinal win that ended KC’s title hopes on the brink of a championship appearance in their home stadium. To add salt to the wound, the Pride went on to lift that championship trophy in Kansas City. The Current return to this rivalry in top form after a 4–1 win last weekend, led by a red-hot front line of Debinha, Temwa Chawinga, and Bia Zaneratto. Chawinga, sitting on 24 career goals, is one shy of joining the 25-goal club, while Lorena anchors a defense with four clean sheets this season. There’s a lot on the line for this one but most prevalent is the top spot in the standings. If Orlando wins, the top spot is theirs. If the Current wins, they increase their distance between them and the Pride.

How to watch: NWSL+

Racing Louisville is on a roll after back-to-back wins and a statement performance against Gotham FC in Week 8 at home. Savannah DeMelo continues to be the engine for the squad, notching a league-leading 3 assists in the last two games, while Emma Sears has been clinical in front of goal with four goals already this season. Don’t sleep on Taylor Flint, a tall target for corners who can strike from distance as well. The Reign, fresh off an unfortunate loss in Week 8 at home against the Dash, will look to Lynn Biyendolo to spark the attack again after her game-winner in Week 7. She is one assist away from breaking the NWSL all-time assist record.

How to watch: Paramount+, Golazo, NWSL+

North Carolina welcomes Chicago to Cary riding a three-game unbeaten streak but a disappointing draw last weekend. Ashley Sanchez scored in back-to-back games in Week 6 and 7 and remains perfect on shot accuracy this season (7-for-7 on target). Rookie Aline Gomes and teenager Riley Jackson have added spark to the Courage attack, and captain Denise O’Sullivan is their calm and collected leader – leading the team in tackles and interceptions. Chicago, still adjusting under interim head coach Masaki Hemmi, will look to Jameese Joseph’s creativity, Ludmila’s finishing, and Sam Staab’s consistency on the backline now that she’s 90 minutes ready. North Carolina’s stingy defense and home form could prove decisive.

How to watch: ION

The Spirit return to Audi Field looking to bounce back after a wild 4–3 loss to Angel City the last time they were home. With the added bump of a clutch win last weekend, the momentum is on their side. Esme Morgan notched her first two NWSL goals in that match, while Ashley Hatch continues to support the team in goals and assists. Croix Bethune is back in the fold and nearing the club’s assist record. Utah, meanwhile, are in a slump right now and recently were kept goalless in Week 8. They have all the pieces needed to find success, but this young squad is still searching for their identity in their second year in the league.

How to watch: ION

Saturday’s late match at PayPal Park closes out Week 9 with Bay FC hosting a surging Angel City squad. The visitors are coming off a dramatic 4–3 win over Washington in Week 7 and then a 2-0 emotional win in Week 8. Highlights include Riley Tiernan’s brace, the first sister-to-sister goal in NWSL history from Alyssa and Gisele Thompson, Christen Press’ first home goal since 2022, and Alyssa’s fourth goal of the season. With Press now seeing increased minutes and goal involvement, their attack looks dangerous. For Bay, all eyes are on Asisat Oshoala and Racheal Kundananji to break through Angel City’s back line, while goalkeeper Jordan Silkowitz looks to keep the visitors at bay (pun intended). Both teams have a lot to play for this weekend, making it the perfect way to close out the weekend.
