When most people think of an NWSL rivalry, Kansas City Current vs. Orlando Pride probably isn't the first matchup that comes to mind. But after everything that unfolded in 2024, it has quickly become a fan favorite.

Welcome to NWSL Rivalry Week presented by Ally.

It all started in July, when the league's two unbeaten teams met at CPKC Stadium. Orlando spoiled the party, handing Kansas City its first loss of the season in a dramatic 2-1 victory. Barbra Banda scored, Marta calmly converted a penalty after a chaotic sequence in the box, and the Pride held on despite playing the entire second half down to 10 players after Carrie Lawrence was sent off with a red card. The Pride celebrated their well-deserved win on the field and the KC faithful would not forget it.

Four months later, they met again but this time, it was on Orlando’s home turf, with a trip to the NWSL Championship on the line.

Kansas City struck first, but Orlando answered with goals from Haley McCutcheon and Banda before Marta produced one of the defining moments of the 2024 postseason.

After Banda won the ball, Marta raced into open space, sent two Current defenders sliding with a cutback, dribbled around the goalkeeper as she went to ground, and calmly slotted in home to put the match away. It was vintage Marta and one of the league's most memorable goals to date.

The win sent Orlando to the championship which, as if by fate, was in Kansas City's own stadium.

A week later, the Pride lifted the NWSL Championship trophy after completing a historic Shield-and-Championship double, launching what's quickly becoming one of the league's spiciest new rivalries.

Now, the two contenders meet again in Kansas City, and two of their stars are top three in the Golden Boot race – Barbra Banda leads with 11 goals and Temwa Chawinga is quickly catching up with 8 goals. Orlando leads the head-to-head results with a 4W-3L-4D record in all competitions, and has scored 14 goals to KC’s 13 goals.

Tune in this Friday, July 10 at 8 PM ET on Prime Video to catch all the glorious, glorious action.
