(Photo by Steph Chambers/NWSL via Getty Images)

When: Saturday, April 12th - 7:30 pm ET

How to watch: ION

READ: How to Watch the NWSL on ION

The lights will be bright at Lumen Field this Saturday as Seattle Reign FC welcome the undefeated Orlando Pride in a coast-to-coast showdown. With early-season momentum, rising rookies, and legacy stars all in the mix, this one’s got storylines for days. Here are five reasons to tune in:

The Pride are off to one of their strongest starts in recent memory—undefeated through the first three matches of the season. With back-to-back wins and a chance to become the fourth 4-0 team in league history they’re headed to Seattle looking for victory. This matchup will be a major test of whether Orlando can continue to ride their early-season form or if the Reign will be the first to hand them their first regular season loss in 2025.

Led by the rock-solid unit of Kylie Nadaner, Emily Sams, Kerry Abello, and Rafaelle, the Pride have conceded just one goal all season. Their organization, communication, and physicality have frustrated some of the league’s top attackers and usually if anyone can get past this backline unit, they’re met with a tackle or challenge to win the ball. If they’re locked in again on Friday, expect a clinic in elite defending.

Last season, Seattle found the back of the net multiple times in their two games versus the Pride—but couldn’t quite get the win. With that memory fresh, the Reign will be eager to shift the narrative and take down the defending champs on home turf and show the 2025 Reign are here to play.

Despite playing center back, Jordyn Bugg is making waves in the attack—scoring a long-range stunner against North Carolina in Week 2 and firing off two shots last week, including one on target, in a tough matchup against Angel City’s defense. Rookie Maddie Dahlien, the 2024 NCAA Champion out of UNC, leads the Reign in both shots and shots on target. She’s knocking on the door of her first pro goal, and Friday might just be the night. And there’s no better place to score your first career goal than in front of a home crowd.

The legend continues to shine. Marta enters this week tied for the team lead in goals and with an assist to her name as well. Whether she’s creating space, threading the perfect pass, or taking the moment into her own hands and scoring a cheeky Panenka, Marta continues to be one of the most captivating players in the game.

It’s set to be a battle between two teams who both want that win. Whether you’re rooting for the Reign to bounce back or watching the Pride chase perfection, you won’t want to miss this one. Catch all the action on ION at 7:30 PM ET this Saturday, April 12th.
