NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

CHALLENGE CUP HEATS UP

Following last week’s league-wide break, the NWSL returns to action in an important week of Challenge Cup matchups as the group stage continues with five games. Only three-and-a-half weeks remain before the start of the Challenge Cup playoffs. Following group play, four teams will square off in semifinal matches on Wednesday, September 6 ahead of the UKG NWSL Challenge Cup Final on Saturday, September 9. Additional details regarding the Cup playoffs will be released after the bracket has been finalized. Bringing the first-ever million-dollar prize pool to U.S. women’s soccer, UKG, a leading provider of HR, payroll, and workforce management solutions for all people, and the NWSL made history on April 19 when this year’s 2023 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup kicked off. In its first year as the tournament’s title sponsor, UKG aims to not only bring pay equity to the world of professional sports, but also to shed light on the need for continued commitment by employers across every industry to focus on achieving equity of opportunity and equity of pay for women and other underrepresented groups.

A BRIEF HISTORY

The Challenge Cup began in 2020 as one of the first major sporting events to return to play following the start of the Covid-19 Pandemic. Newly reformatted this year, the Cup, which was previously played prior to the start of the season, now runs concurrently with the regular season. Three different teams have won the Challenge Cup since its inception. In 2020, the Houston Dash and Chicago Red Stars both finished 1-1-2 in Challenge Cup play before advancing all the way to the finals, where Houston would win the inaugural tournament by a score of 2-0, with goals from Sophie Schmidt and Shea Groom. Former Houston forward Rachel Daly was named the tournament MVP while Groom was named championship MVP. In 2021, the Portland Thorns (3-1-0) defeated NJ/NY Gotham FC (2-2-0) on a winning kick from Morgan Weaver in a penalty shootout. Midfielder Debinha won tournament MVP for the North Carolina Courage while then-Portland goalkeeper Adrianna Franch would be named championship MVP. In 2022, the North Carolina Courage (3-3-0) took down the Washington Spirit (2-4-0), 2-1, in the championship game with goals from Kerolin and Taylor Aylmer. Debinha would once again win tournament MVP while Kerolin would win championship MVP.

CHALLENGE CUP STANDINGS

The three division-winners and the highest-placed runner-up will advance to the Challenge Cup semifinals on September 6. Heading into week 16, the Courage (1-0-2, 5 points) sit atop the East region ahead of Gotham FC (1-0-1, 4 pts) and the Spirit (1-2-0, 3 pts). Things stay interesting in the West where OL Reign (3-0-1, 10 pts) have a sizable lead over in a competitive table. The rest of the division is rounded out by Angel City FC (1-2-1, 4 pts) followed by Portland Thorns FC and San Diego Wave FC each sitting at 1-2-0 with 3 points. Three points separate each of the top three spots in the Central region, held by Racing Louisville FC (3-0-0, 9 pts), the Kansas City Current (2-1-0, 6 pts) and the Houston Dash (1-2-0, 3 pts). Two matchups in particular this week, Portland vs. San Diego and Kansas City vs. Houston, will be especially important as teams fight to take control of the fourth spot in the semifinals. This week’s schedule also includes a rematch of last year’s Challenge Cup Finals between the North Carolina Courage and the Washington Spirit.

WORLD CUP BEGINS

A total of 61 NWSL players were named to national team rosters for the 2023 FIFA Women‘s World Cup, representing a league record 16 different countries on the international stage. A full list of competing players can be found here. World Cup action began Thursday, July 20th as six NWSL players suited up for opening matches with Australia, Ireland and New Zealand. Football Ferns captain and Angel City FC defender Ali Riley saw her team win its first-ever World Cup match with a 1-0 victory over Norway, while Australia midfielders Alex Chidiac (LOU) and Emily van Egmond (SD) were on hand for the team’s 1-0 win over the Girls in Green. Forwards Sinead Farrelly (NJNY) and Marissa Sheva (WAS) and midfielder Denise O’Sullivan (NCC) all featured for Ireland in the loss.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

LEAGUE LEADER WATCH

Midfielders Debinha and Savannah DeMelo currently lead the league with three Challenge Cup goals apiece this season. With both playing in the World Cup, along with forwards Jordyn Huitema and Lynn Williams (two goals each), the league could see a shakeup in scoring this week. Racing’s Parker Goins, Kansas City’s CeCe Kizer, Angel City’s Clarisse Le Bihan and the Orlando Pride’s Ally Watt each have two goals and look to tie or take the league lead. Four players are tied for the league lead with two assists, including Angel City’s Scarlett Camberos, Louisville’s Paige Monaghan, Kansas City’s Alex Spaanstra and Orlando’s Summer Yates. As the quartet look to break their tie, all but Camberos will take the field this week.

KEEPING UP THE PACE

In 2022, the NWSL set a record for scoring in the Challenge Cup with 106 goals in 39 matches, averaging 2.72 goals per match. The league ison a similar trajectory for 2023. In the 18 Challenge Cup matches that have been played so far this season, there have been 47 goals, an average of 2.61 goals per match. In the first Challenge Cup in 2020, teams scored 36 goals in 23 matches for an average of 1.57 goals per match, which in 2021 increased to 48 goals in 21 matches, averaging 2.29 goals per match.

TWENTY CLUB

Only four players have played 20 Challenge Cup games in the NWSL. OL Reign forward Veronica Latsko is the all-time leader with 22 games, followed by San Diego midfielder Danielle Colaprio, Washingon midfielder Ashley Sanchez and Racing attacker Paige Monaghan at 20 apiece. This week, Monaghan and Houston’s Katie Lind could become the first two players to start in 20 Challenge Cup matches. Four more players can reach 20 Challenge Cup matches played this week, including Angel City’s Katie Johnson and Savannah McCaskill, North Carolina’s Tyler Lussi and Portland’s Morgan Weaver. Weaver and Lind could also tie Ashley Sanchez for most Challenge Cup games played for one team with 20.

WEEK 16 MATCH SCHEDULE

July 21, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. Chicago Red Stars | Lynn Family Stadium | 7:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Portland Thorns FC vs. San Diego Wave FC | Providence Park | 10:30 p.m. ET | Paramount +

July 22, 2023

North Carolina Courage vs. Washington Spirit | WakeMed Soccer Park | 7:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Kansas City Current vs. Houston Dash | Children’s Mercy Park | 8:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+

July 23, 2023

Orlando Pride vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | Exploria Stadium | 7:00 p.m. ET | Paramount+
