San Diego Wave rookie defender Amelia (Mimi) Van Zanten could make her NWSL debut against the Houston Dash on March 14, and if she does, nearly 30 of her friends and family will be in the stands, cheering her on.

It will be almost all of her immediate family – all except her older sister, Kalyssa (Kiki). She isn’t missing the game, but she won’t be watching in the crowd.

She’ll be on the pitch.

As a forward entering her third season with the Houston Dash, Kiki Van Zanten very well could go up against her little sister, Mimi, in her first NWSL game.

“It’s honestly everything,” Mimi said.

As much as the Van Zanten sisters – oldest, Brianna, middle, Kiki, and youngest, Mimi – love and admire each other, they are also athletes who grew up constantly trying to outdo one another in everything.

So, if you think Kiki might take it easy on her baby sister in her professional debut, think again.

“I hope she loses,” Kiki said. “My perfect scenario is: she plays well, but we still win … Big sisters should beat little sisters.”

And as the youngest, Mimi knows there needs to be a healthy sense of anxiety going into the match.

“I have too much nerves with everything going on, and then I turn around and my one-on-one opponent is my older sister that I’ve looked up to my entire life? That’s probably my worst nightmare,” Mimi said, laughing.

Kiki is four years older than Mimi, so the two rarely played soccer against each other growing up. It wasn’t until Mimi’s freshman year of college that their teams ever competed against each other. Mimi was a freshman at Florida State University, and it was Kiki’s fifth year at Notre Dame.

“We whooped them,” Mimi said.

The Van Zanten sisters didn’t come face-to-face during that game, but that doesn’t mean they weren’t using every possible competitive advantage at their disposal, including the exploitation of pet peeves.

“I have a weird thing with my ears,” Mimi said. “I hate ears.”

Kiki told all of her Notre Dame teammates about Mimi’s “Achilles’ ear,” encouraging them to flick her ear during corner kicks to rattle her. Fortunately for Mimi, no Fighting Irish tested their luck.

All is fair in love and sisterly battles.

“They’ve always been like that, since they were little little,” their mother, Priscilla Van Zanten said.

The last time Kiki and Mimi went head-to-head – truly, one vs. one – things looked very different. The pitch? Their childhood living room. The goals? A couch and a fireplace.

The stakes, however, couldn’t have been higher.

“They were always kicking the ball in my house,” Priscilla said. “One day, they both came to me. Mimi's crying. Kiki just said, ‘Mommy, guess what? I just beat Mimi one-on-one, 20-0.’ I'm like, ‘Kiki, she's two years old.’ She's like, ‘Oh, she's going to have to learn someday.’”

Talking with the three Van Zanten sisters, two things are immediately clear: how much they love and respect each other and how much they want to defeat each other in… everything. Growing up in the Van Zanten household, nothing was safe from being turned into a competition.

“It was just part of our personalities,” Brianna, the oldest of the sisters, said. “We're very determined and driven. It would be, ‘I'm going to beat you to the car, or... I finished all my meat first. I finished all my vegetables. Mom, mom, mom!’ We’re all copy-paste, the same person. We all admired something about each other.”

What they admired, they wanted to become, and it all started with Brianna.

As the oldest daughter, BB was the first to pick soccer up, but around the age she went on to play basketball and run cross country, Kiki and Mimi chose to specialize. Brianna played soccer at Case Western Reserve University and two years semiprofessionally in the USL W League, and eventually turned to coaching when her playing days were done.

The game became a shared language between the sisters.

“Soccer is still a huge part of our relationship. We can’t shut up about the sport,” Brianna said.

Brianna may not have chased the dream of being a professional player, but her sisters are adamant that they were only able to because she showed them the way.

“Both of us are here because of her,” Kiki said.

As the oldest sister, Brianna is exactly where she needs to be – never forgetting to send a “good luck” pregame text message and showing what it means to be a supportive sister.

“I'm still living the dream through my sisters – now in double time,” Brianna said. “I get to watch twice as much soccer and brag twice as much.”

Brianna will be doing exactly that from SnapDragon Stadium, watching her little sisters on the pitch. For the Florida State and Notre Dame game, Brianna made split t-shirts for their friends and family to support both Kiki and Mimi. This time around, her boyfriend designed a split jersey that the whole crew will be rocking on game day.

It’s a special moment the whole family could only dream would happen.

“We've always joked about hoping one day that Mimi and Kiki would get to play on the same field, maybe on the same team,” Brianna said. “It's a perfect setup, and, obviously, we have to clear our whole schedules, because this is the one of the most important games for our family.”

The match day has become a family reunion of sorts.

“It just makes it that much more amazing. Nieces, nephews, in-laws, parents, grandparents from all over to see this,” their father, Kent Van Zanten, said. “It’s what love is, for family and the game. It’s very special for everyone.”

But it also brings up a complicated question: what scenario is the family rooting for?

“That’s the million dollar question,” Brianna said.

Priscilla hopes (in a way that indicates she’s mostly kidding) that her girls behave themselves.

“When they play, it's game on,” she said. “They don't hear me. They don't see me, they don't acknowledge me. It’s game on.”

It’s been nearly 20 years since the Van Zanten living room soccer matches that live on in family lore. This time, Kiki and Mimi will again be on opposite sides, but one day, Kiki said she hopes that changes. Whether for the same NWSL club or for the Jamaican national team, to play alongside Mimi would be magic.

“You talk about team cultures and wanting to essentially do everything you can to help your teammates out. If they miss a tackle, you'll pick it up. In its truest form, that's what it feels like to play for your sister,” Kiki said. “If you could bottle that up and put that on every team, the soccer would be incredible.”

Catch the Van Zanten Derby this Saturday, March 14 at 8:45 p.m. ET on ION!
