NEW YORK (November 8, 2024) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the months of October and November by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Seven teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including Bay FC, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, the Orlando Pride, Washington Spirit, and Utah Royals FC.

GK – Almuth Schult (KC): Schult started all five matches, registering 10 saves. The German goalkeeper only allowed two goals in 450 minutes played. She earned two clean sheets, including one in the Kansas City’s NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup Championship victory.

D – Emily Sams (ORL): Sams dominated the backline, playing in four matches recording a passing accuracy of 89.83 percent and notching one assist. The Boise, Idaho, native added seven tackles won and four interceptions in 295 minutes played.

D – Kaleigh Kurtz (NC): Kurtz extended her league-record streak for consecutive minutes played, recording a passing accuracy of 87.9 percent, with 15 duels won, two tackles won, and five interceptions. The center back helped the Courage secure the No. 5 seed in the NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel.

D – Kayla Sharples (KC): Sharples helped the Current earn two clean sheets in October and November, while winning three tackles and recording nine interceptions. In 400 minutes played, the center back recorded a passing accuracy of 89.8 percent.

D – Abby Dahlkemper (BAY): Dahlkemper is featured on the Best XI for the third straight month as she helped lead Bay FC to the club’s first-ever playoff berth. The California native played 360 minutes, registering one goal, with six interceptions and a passing accuracy of 82.57 percent.

M – Yazmeen Ryan (GFC): Yazmeen Ryan played in four matches, logging one goal and one assist while adding seven dribbles past opponents, eight tackles won and one interception. The Oklahoma native took eight total shots, with four on target.

M – Rose Lavelle (GFC): Lavelle makes the Best XI after recording two goals and eight tackles won along with 19 duels won. The Cincinnati native added eight total shots, with five on target, plus a passing accuracy of 83.8 percent in 334 minutes played.

M – Claudia Zornoza (UTA): The Spanish international made her way to the Best XI for the first time after notching one goal and one assist in four matches. Zornoza added 11 tackles won and seven interceptions to her stat sheet in 360 minutes played.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): Also named the October and November Player of the Month, the Malawi international played in four matches, recording five goals. Her brace against Gotham FC in the NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup Championship led Kansas City to its first NWSL trophy on October 25. The Golden Boot winner logged eight total shots, seven on target.

F – Esther Gonzalez (GFC): Gonzalez played four matches, tallying five goals and one assist, including two braces. The 2023 Women’s World Cup champion totaled 11 total shots, seven on target along with a passing accuracy of 80.88 percent.

F – Makenna Morris (WAS): Spirit rookie Makenna Morris notched three goals and one assist to make the Best XI for the first time. The Maryland native added three tackles won and six total shots, four on target in 279 minutes played.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of October and November are based off performances during the NWSL regular season matches.
