NEW YORK (January 9, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today corrective action in response to the findings of the Joint Investigative Report released on December 14, 2022. As previously disclosed, the Joint Investigative Team found that the failures across the league and U.S. Soccer were largely systemic in nature and made recommendations on several forward-looking and structural reforms to improve the league's policies and practices. Discipline applicable to specific individuals and organizations was left to the discretion of the league. Following extensive review of the Report, NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman has imposed, where appropriate, individual bans, suspensions and fines, as well as the conditions by which certain individuals would be eligible for future work in the league in response to the investigation findings, specifically those summarized in Section V of the Report.

NEW YORK (January 9, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today corrective action in response to the findings of the Joint Investigative Report released on December 14, 2022. As previously disclosed, the Joint Investigative Team found that the failures across the league and U.S. Soccer were largely systemic in nature and made recommendations on several forward-looking and structural reforms to improve the league's policies and practices. Discipline applicable to specific individuals and organizations was left to the discretion of the league. Following extensive review of the Report, NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman has imposed, where appropriate, individual bans, suspensions and fines, as well as the conditions by which certain individuals would be eligible for future work in the league in response to the investigation findings, specifically those summarized in Section V of the Report.

Commissioner Berman stated, “The league will continue to prioritize implementing and enhancing the policies, programs and systems that put the health and safety of our players first. Those actions are fundamental to the future of our league, especially as we build a league that strengthens our players’ ability to succeed and prosper on and off the pitch. As part of our commitment to accountability and deterrence, the league has determined that further corrective action with respect to certain organizations and individuals identified in the Joint Investigative Report is appropriate and necessary.” Penalties detailed below are assigned according to a tiered system based upon a combination of factors: the degree of severity of the misconduct that occurred, whether individuals in positions of power knew or should have known of the misconduct, the degree or repetition of the misconduct, evidence of retaliatory conduct, the proximate nature of the behavior or action to the present, and actions that failed to communicate the misconduct with others. The level of the penalty is reduced in cases where there were mitigating factors such as the responsibility of others for contributing to the misconduct and voluntary disclosure, corrective action such as acceptance of responsibility, and good faith efforts to mitigate poor decisions such as removing people in positions of authority who failed to act. All corrective action fines will be used solely in furtherance of systemic reform and to directly and positively impact the lives of players, such as expanding mental health resources and positive culture-building and enhancing coaching education and development. In order to effectively deploy this investment in our future, the league will work in conjunction with the NWSL Players Association and with the advice and support of outside subject-matter experts.

Individual Sanctions

Level One: Permanent Exclusion from NWSL

Paul Riley

Christy Holly

Rory Dames

Richie Burke

Level Two: Suspension and Future Employment in the NWSL is Conditional

Craig Harrington: Craig Harrington is ineligible to work in the NWSL in any capacity for two (2) years (i.e., until at least January 9, 2025) and to qualify for future employment he must meet the requirements set forth below.

Alyse LaHue: Alyse LaHue is ineligible to work in the NWSL in any capacity for two (2) years (i.e., until at least January 9, 2025) and to qualify for future employment she must meet the requirements set forth below.

Future employment within the league will be conditioned on the following factors being established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner in her complete discretion: acknowledging wrongdoing and accepting personal responsibility for inappropriate conduct, participating in training, and demonstrating a sincere commitment to correcting behavior.

Level Three: Future Employment in the NWSL is Conditional

Farid Benstiti

James Clarkson

Vera Pauw

Amanda Cromwell (previously communicated October 10, 2022)

Sam Greene (previously communicated October 10, 2022)

Aline Reis (previously communicated October 10, 2022)

Future employment within the league will be conditioned on the following factors being established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner in her complete discretion: acknowledging wrongdoing and accepting personal responsibility for inappropriate conduct, participating in training, and demonstrating a sincere commitment to correcting behavior.

Organization Sanctions

Level One: Not Less Than $1 Million and Systemic Changes

Governing Bodies

NWSL League Office

Since Fall 2021, the league has incurred millions of dollars of costs so that an independent and joint investigation with the NWSLPA could conduct fact-finding and so that wide-ranging systemic reforms could be implemented. In addition, the league and its clubs have been investing significant incremental resources to create an appropriate and professional environment that prioritizes the health and safety of players. Those efforts will continue and the league, under new administration, will oversee the requisite policy, programmatic and procedural changes required. More specifically, on December 14, 2022, the league announced an update on the systemic reform commitments (NWSL December 14 Press Release) for the 2023 season and beyond. The league will share an update on these initiatives ahead of the 2023 season. To be clear, none of the individuals previously employed by either the NWSL or U.S. Soccer who are named in the Joint Investigative Report are working in any capacity within the NWSL.

U.S. Soccer: The NWSL has no authority over U.S. Soccer.

The NWSL has representation on the U.S. Soccer Participant Safety Taskforce and expects and intends to work collaboratively with U.S. Soccer in its efforts to improve the girls’ and women’s soccer ecosystem. Since U.S. Soccer’s work will necessarily be focused on the appropriate scope of authority in the governing body’s role, we also invite U.S. Soccer to contribute to the NWSL’s efforts to effectuate change in the professional ranks.

Clubs

Chicago Red Stars: $1.5 Million. Further, Arnim Whisler is selling the Chicago Red Stars and the NWSL will work collaboratively with him to ensure that the club is transferred in an expeditious and appropriate manner.

Portland Thorns: $1 Million (previously announced by Merritt Paulson as a pledge to support the establishment of an NWSL Player Safety Office). Further, Paulson is selling the Portland Thorns and the NWSL will work collaboratively with him to ensure that the club is transferred in an expeditious and appropriate manner.

Level Two: Not Less Than $100,000

Racing Louisville: $200,000. Further, Racing Louisville will be required to hire a sporting staff (i.e., coaches and general managers) that is completely distinct from the men’s team with which it shares ownership, and the Racing Louisville staff must report directly into ownership.

North Carolina Courage: $100,000. Further, the Courage will be required to hire a sporting staff (i.e., coaches and general managers) that is completely distinct from the men’s team with which it shares ownership, and the Courage staff must report directly into ownership.

Level Three – Not Less Than $50,000

OL Reign: $50,000.

Gotham FC (previously, Sky Blue FC): $50,000.

Clubs Named But Not Subject to Penalties

Washington Spirit: Following the results of the NWSL-commissioned 2021 independent investigation into the misconduct by Burke and the inaction by Steve Baldwin, the then-CEO and controlling owner, the NWSL took steps to force Baldwin to sell the club. The club sale to Y. Michele Kang was finalized in March 2022. Due to the change in club ownership and staffing resulting from the investigation, the league will not impose any further corrective action on the club.

Kansas City Current: While it is concerning that several players raised concerns about being mistreated or retaliation upon raising those concerns, there is no finding that the club retaliated against players.

* * Commissioner Berman continued, “The league and its clubs have taken meaningful steps to begin this structural reform, and understand and accept the continual commitment to enhancing league standards that are necessary to build a safe and positive environment for our players, staff, fans and partners. The Board of Governors hired me with the very specific mandate to effectuate this transformation. These changes will require leadership, accountability, funding and a willingness to embrace this new way of conducting business. Our league and clubs are committed to making these changes and will do so with continued input from the NWSL Players Association to make the NWSL a league that sets the standard for the future of sports. I look forward to sharing more about our progress on our efforts ahead of our 2023 season.”
