NWSL. Is. So. Back. After a weekend of fireworks both on and off the pitch, here’s a look at this week’s matches, including three NWSL Rivalry Week matches presented by Ally you won’t want to miss.

Orlando Pride vs. Kansas City Current - Friday, July 10 | 8:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Racing Louisville FC vs. Bay FC - Friday, July 10 | 8:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Boston Legacy FC vs. Chicago Stars FC - Friday, July 10 | 8:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Utah Royals FC vs. Gotham FC - Friday, July 10 | 10:00 PM ET (Victory+)

North Carolina Courage vs. Washington Spirit - Saturday, July 11 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

San Diego Wave FC vs. Angel City FC - Saturday, July 11 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

Seattle Reign FC vs. Portland Thorns FC - Sunday, July 12 | 4:00 PM ET (ESPN, ESPN App)

Denver Summit FC vs. Houston Dash - Sunday, July 12 | 7:00 PM ET (Victory+)

San Diego leads the league with 28 points, but they’re only one point ahead of Portland and four ahead of Kansas City, who hold a game in hand.

If Portland beats Seattle and Angel City upset San Diego, the Thorns move to 30 points and take over first place.

If San Diego beats Angel City, the Wave stay on top regardless of Portland's result, moving to 31 points.

If Kansas City beats Orlando, the Current move to 27 points, drawing level with Portland (if Portland loses to Seattle) and closing to within one point of San Diego if the Wave drop points.

Why it matters: We could have a new Shield leader by Sunday evening. Regardless, this back-and-forth between Portland and San Diego has been fun to watch for NWSL fans everywhere and has created one of the tensest battles for the top in recent memory.

Matchweek 12 is headlined by some of the league's biggest rivalries, including the Cascadia Rivalry between Seattle Reign and Portland Thorns and a SoCal showdown between San Diego Wave FC and Angel City FC.

The Current head to Orlando after a statement 3-0 win over Denver Summit FC, powered by Michelle Cooper's first career brace and another goal from Temwa Chawinga. It’s a rematch of the 2024 NWSL Semifinal, one of the most electric high-stakes games in league history (anyone else remember THAT Marta goal?). We’ll be sat.

Gotham FC heads west with a chance to earn the club's 100th regular-season win. They’ll be facing off against the Utah Royals, who recently saw their historic unbeaten streak end.

Ashley Sanchez faces her former club as the North Carolina Courage host the Washington Spirit. If you’re seeing an ex, it helps if you’re in the best form of your career, and Sanchez returned from the summer break with a brace to keep the momentum going.

Sophia Wilson enters the Cascadia fresh off becoming the youngest and fastest player to score 50 regular-season goals with one club, while Seattle Reign FC's Sofia Huerta extended her league-record assist total in Matchweek 11.

Both clubs are coming off 2-0 home victories, setting up another chapter in one of the league’s newest and most entertaining rivalries.
