NEW YORK (April 28, 2026) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the 16 players nominated for the 2026 Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, recognizing an NWSL player for outstanding service and character off the pitch. The complete list of nominees and their chosen community partners can be found below:

Angel City FC \- Savy King (Savy King of Hearts)

Bay FC \- Hannah Bebar (Bay Area Women's Sports Initiative (BAWSI)

Boston Legacy FC - Fauzia Najjemba (Soccer Without Borders Massachusetts)

Chicago Stars FC \- Katie Atkinson (Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital - Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders)

Denver Summit FC - Carson Pickett (Hand Camp Colorado)

Gotham FC \- Tierna Davidson (Girls Leadership)

Houston Dash \- Kiki Van Zanten (Communities in Schools (CIS) of Houston)

Kansas City Current \- Izzy Rodriguez (EarlystART)

North Carolina Courage \- Cameron Brooks (The Bair Foundation)

Orlando Pride \- Zara Chavoshi (Habitat for Humanity Seminole-Apopka)

Portland Thorns FC \- Bella Bixby (Friend of Trees)

Racing Louisville FC \- Jordyn Bloomer (Dare to Care)

San Diego Wave FC \- Nya Harrison (Monarch School)

Seattle Reign FC \- Cassie Miller (Nick of Time)

Utah Royals FC \- Aria Nagai (Asian Association of Utah)

Washington Spirit \- Leicy Santos (Leicy Santos Foundation)

Of the 16 Club nominees, one will be announced as the winner as part of the 2026 NWSL Awards, presented by AT&T, during Championship weekend. At that time, Nationwide will make a $50,000 donation to the charitable organization of the winner’s choice.

The Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, was introduced in 2024 to honor the two-time NWSL Champion and Olympic gold medalist, FIFA Women’s World Cup champion, National Soccer Hall of Fame inductee, and recipient of the Muhammad Ali Sports Humanitarian ESPY Award Lauren Holiday. It spotlights players who exemplify dedication and commitment to giving back in service of their local communities. Holiday retired from the NWSL in 2015 following a career during which she won back-to-back championships, was named the 2013 NWSL MVP and awarded the Golden Boot, and was named the 2014 NWSL Championship MVP.

"It is an honor each year to showcase a group of women who are dedicated to impacting the game and the communities which they are connected to,” said Lauren Holiday. “They continue to redefine the standards on athletes using their platforms to give back and see change.”

“Nationwide is thrilled to partner with the NWSL to sponsor this award, and we are committed to elevating players who make meaningful impact in their communities,” said Ann Bair, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Nationwide.

The winner will be determined by a panel of judges that will include Lauren Holiday, NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman, and representatives from Nationwide, NWSLPA, and Media Association.

“Few things connect people like sports, and the NWSL is honored to support athletes who use their platforms to strengthen communities and rally others around meaningful causes,” said NWSL Chief Commercial Officer Brian Kelly. “The nominees for this year’s Lauren Holiday Impact Award reflect the league at its finest – demonstrating excellence in competition while making a real difference beyond the game.”

Over the course of the season, each club will recognize its nominee and local community partner during a match. To honor their impact, a $5,000 donation will be made to the chosen nonprofit organization in each market.

For more information on the Lauren Holiday Impact Award program, click here.

About NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, NWSL Atlanta, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Nationwide

Nationwide, a Fortune 100 company based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest and strongest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the United States. Nationwide is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s. An industry leader in driving customer-focused innovation, Nationwide provides a full range of insurance and financial services products including auto, business, homeowners, farm and life insurance; public and private sector retirement plans, annuities and mutual funds; excess & surplus, specialty and surety; and pet, motorcycle and boat insurance. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com.

Nationwide, Nationwide is on your side and the Nationwide N and Eagle are service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. © 2026
