NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

CLINCHES AND ELIMINATIONS

This season boasts one of the tightest races the NWSL has seen, with every team still in contention and no playoff berths clinched through the first 19 rounds of regular season matches. Week 20 could see the playoff picture start to take shape, as three teams can potentially clinch a spot in the top six, including Portland Thorns FC, San Diego Wave FC and NJ/NY Gotham FC, while the Chicago Red Stars and Kansas City Current face potential elimination. Standings leader Portland Thorns can clinch a playoff berth with a win over San Diego this week. If Portland and San Diego draw, the Thorns can still earn a playoff spot if the Orlando Pride draw or win against Angel City FC. Portland also clinches a playoff berth with a draw if the Washington Spirit lose and Racing Louisville FC either draws or loses. Currently in the second position in the standings, San Diego can secure a playoff berth with a win if Orlando draws or wins, or if Racing draws or loses in addition to a Washington loss. The same outcomes for Orlando, Racing and Washington can also secure a playoff spot for Gotham FC if they defeat the Houston Dash. For more information on this playoff clinching scenarios for Week 20, click here.

KEY MATCHUPS

The top two teams face each other this week as the Portland Thorns take on the San Diego Wave at Providence Park on Saturday night. With only two points separating the teams, San Diego could move into first place with a win. San Diego is tied in points with Gotham FC but sits above them in the standings due to goal differential. If the Wave and Gotham FC both win, Gotham FC could move into first place if they can surpass the Wave in goals scored over the weekend. OL Reign plays the North Carolina Courage on Sunday in a matchup that we could see in the playoffs, as the fourth-place Courage lead the Reign by just one point. This is the second time the two have squared off this season, with North Carolina winning the first matchup 1-0. Seventh place Orlando Pride heads to Los Angeles to play Angel City FC on Monday, with the two clubs tied in points and separated in goal differential by a single tally. With both teams sitting just below the playoff line, both look to capture all three points with a win. The two clubs faced one another in Week 2, with Angel City winning 2-1.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

SAVING UP

With a 2-0 win against the Washington Spirit in Week 19, Gotham FC recorded the 49th regular season shutout in club history while keeping the Spirit at 48. Both clubs look to become just the fifth NWSL team with 50 regular season shutouts. Spirit goalkeeper Aubrey Kingsbury is one clean sheet away from 30 across her career, a mark only four keepers have reached in the NWSL. Also with 29 career shutouts is Houston Dash keeper Jane Campbell who has allowed just 15 goals this season, playing in all 19 matches. The Dash are within striking distance of the record for fewest goals allowed in a season (17) set by the North Carolina Courage in 2018 and matched by the Portland Thorns in 2021. The next shutout for Campbell would make her the third keeper to record 30 for one club. Campbell’s next win will tie her with former FC Kansas City keeper Nicole Barnart for the second most wins by a keeper with one club (43). San Diego Wave keeper Kailen Sheridan’s 28 career shutouts in the regular season have her next in line to reach 30. The next shutout for Chicago Red Stars keeper Alyssa Naeher will be her 38th with the club, tying Nicole Barnhart for the most with one club. Meanwhile, Kansas City Current keeper AD Franch is one clean sheet away from becoming third player in NWSL history to record 10 for two different clubs, joining Barnhart and Sheridan. The next shutout for Casey Murphy will be her 25th with the Courage, making her the fifth keeper to earn 25 for a single club.

GATHERING GOALS

OL Reign’s Megan Rapinoe still has more to accomplish in her last NWSL season. The veteran forward has 49 regular season goals in her career, the sixth highest total in NWSL history. A 50th goal would put Rapinoe in exclusive territory, as she would become just the second player to score 50 goals for one club, joining Portland Thorns captain Christine Sinclair. San Diego Wave’s 18-year-old forward Jaedyn Shaw has taken the league by storm, scoring eight goals across her first two seasons in the league. Shaw’s next goal will set a league record for regular season goals by a teenager, breaking a tie with Chicago forward Mallory Swanson, who scored 8 goals for the Washington Spirit before she turned 20. Spirit forward Ashley Hatch has been a force this season, tallying nine goals through the first 19 games. With her next goal, Hatch will become the fifth player in league history to record 40 goals with a single club.

NOTABLE ASSISTS

The next assist for OL Reign defender Sofia Huerta will break a tie with Racing Louisville FC forward Jess McDonald, putting her first on the NWSL’s all-time assist leaderboard with 32. Only six players have recorded 25 career assists in the NWSL but Current midfielder Vanessa DiBernardo, Thorns midfielder Crystal Dunn and OL Reign veteran midfielder Jess Fishlock, who each have 24, could join the list soon. With Fishlock’s next assist, she would join her long-time teammate Megan Rapinoe as the only players with 25 assists for one club. Red Stars forward Yuki Nagasato has 23 assists, including 21 with Chicago. Nagasato’s next assist will tie her with DiBernardo for the club record.

STARTS AND APPEARANCES

Chicago Red Stars defender Arin Wright can make history this weekend, as her next appearance will make her just the seventh player in league history to play 150 regular season matches for one club. Wright’s next start will be her 141st for the Red Stars, setting a club career record. Marta’s next start will be her 82nd for the Orlando Pride, setting a club record. Meanwhile, Spirit forward Ashley Hatch can become the third player to start 100 matches for the club, joining Tori Huster and Aubrey Kingsbury. With Christen Westphal’s next start, the defender will become the first player to start 40 matches for the Wave.

OFF THE PITCH

Last Friday, the NWSL opened its second free agency period under its collective bargaining agreement with the NWSL Players Association. This allows eligible free agents to begin negotiations for their 2024 Standard Player Agreements. For more information on NWSL Free Agency, including a list of eligible free agents for the 2024 campaign, click here.

WEEK 19 MATCH SCHEDULE

September 30, 2023

Washington Spirit vs. Kansas City Current | Audi Field | 7 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Chicago Red Stars vs. Racing Louisville FC | SeatGeek Stadium | 8 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Portland Thorns FC vs. San Diego Wave FC | Providence Park | 10:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

October 1, 2023

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Houston Dash | Red Bull Arena | 6:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ OL Reign vs. North Carolina Courage | Lumen Field | 8 p.m. ET | Paramount+

October 2, 2023

Angel City FC vs. Orlando Pride | BMO Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | CBS Sports Network
