During her illustrious career, Alex Morgan did as much as anyone to grow women's soccer. Now, in retirement, she is putting her money behind it too.

After three years as a member of the San Diego Wave, Morgan is now a minority investor in her former club.

“San Diego is where I’ve built my home, where I am raising my children, and found a purpose beyond my playing career,” Morgan said in a statement. “I believed in Wave FC before a single match was played, and I still believe this Club has the power to change the future of women’s sports. I’m proud to invest in that future and not just as a player, but now as an investor.”

Morgan became a household name during her 224 appearances for the U.S. Women's National team. She scored 123 goals, won two World Cups (going viral for her 2019 tea drinking celebration), and earned gold and bronze in three Olympic appearances. In addition to her prolific international career, Morgan remains San Diego's all-time leader in both goals (28) and assists (11). She helped lead the Wave to its first NWSL Shield in 2023.

In an interview with Boardroom earlier this year, Morgan hinted at this path when she made it clear she preferred pursuing business in lieu of going into coaching.

"I will stay close to sports because I do absolutely love it. I do have this sort of knowledge and background of sport that gives me a leg up in some of these boardrooms or decision making processes in at least deciding whether to partner with a sports team or a sports league," Morgan said.

Morgan retired in September 2024, and she left the league in a very different place than when she found it. The NWSL now has 14 teams and will add two more in Boston and Denver in 2026.

She joins a growing list of female athletes who are investing in the NWSL, including two-time World Cup and two-time Olympic gold medalist Brandi Chastain (Bay FC), two-time gold medalist and World Cup Champion Brianna Scurry (Washington Spirit), New York Liberty’s Sabrina Ionescu (Bay FC), Olympic skier Lindsey Vonn (Utah Royals), and Naomi Osaka (North Carolina Courage).

Morgan joins the Leichtman-Levine family, Wave FC’s controlling owners, in backing women’s soccer in San Diego.

“Alex has always fought to positively impact this game beyond the pitch,” Lauren Leichtman, Controlling Owner of San Diego Wave FC, said in a statement. “She used her platform to lead, to advocate, and to build something meaningful in San Diego. Her decision to invest is not only a continuation of her leadership but also a reflection of her belief in what we are building.”

As Morgan embarks on this new chapter, her investment signals a broader shift in women's sports, one where athletes are shaping the game on the field and in the boardroom.
