NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

NO CLINCHES OR ELIMINATIONS

With just four games left to play for each team, no one can secure a playoff berth or be eliminated from contention in Week 19. Just four points separate the No. 1 seed San Diego Wave FC and No. 6 seed Washington Spirit, while the No. 12 seed Kansas City Current remain seven points out of a playoff spot. Only 11 points separate the Current and the top-seeded Reign, making this year’s race much tighter than 2022, which saw the first and twelfth place teams separated by 27 points at the end of the regular season. With the standings so tight heading into the last month of the season, every game will be important to the playoff picture.

KEY MATCHUPS

Saturday night’s slate of games sees two top-six matchups, as NJ/NY Gotham FC takes on the Washington Spirit and Portland Thorns FC battle OL Reign. Gotham FC and Washington currently hold the last two playoff spots with 27 and 26 points, respectively. The Thorns have the second-best record with 29 points, while OL Reign sits in fourth place with 27. Racing Louisville FC and Angel City FC are close behind with 24 points each, and both could move into the playoff picture with a win. Racing carries a five-game unbeaten streak into their matchup with the Houston Dash on Friday, while Angel City prepares to take on the Chicago Red Stars on Sunday having not lost in their last seven games. Angel City needs a win along with a Spirit loss and either a loss or draw for Racing Louisville. Meanwhile, Racing moves into the sixth seed with a win regardless of other games’ outcomes due to their goal differential as a tiebreaker.

IRONWOMEN

Ten players have suited up for every minute of regular season action, earning them the distinction of ironwomen. Two teams have multiple players on the list, as Angel City FC defender Sarah Gorden and keeper DiDi Haracic have played every minute this season, as well as Racing Louisville FC defender Abby Erceg, keeper Katie Lund and midfielder Lauren Milliet. The remaining five ironwomen include Houston Dash goalkeeper Jane Campbell, North Carolina Courage defender Kaleigh Kurtz, Orlando Pride defender Emily Madril, San Diego Wave FC defender Kaleigh Riehl and Washington Spirit defender Sam Staab. Kurtz, Staab and Lund also accomplished the feat in 2022, and Madril is the only rookie on the list.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

DEFESNSIVE DASH

Through 18 games, the Houston Dash have allowed just 15 goals, the fewest in the league. The NWSL record for fewest goals allowed in a season is 17, set by the North Carolina Courage in 2018 and matched by the Portland Thorns in 2021. Keeper Jane Campbell has recorded six clean sheets for the Dash this season, and one more will set a club record for the most in a single season. Two more will make her just the fifth keeper with 30 career shutouts.

PK POWER

The Washington Spirit have recorded five penalty kick goals this season, all by forward Ashley Hatch. Hatch’s next PK goal will tie her with former Reign midfielder Kim Little and former Boston Breakers midfielder Heather O’Reilly, who each recorded six in 2014. Washington’s next PK goal will tie the record for most by a team in a single season.

MAGIC MIDGE

Last week, Gotham FC forward Midge Purce scored her third regular season goal of the year. Purce has scored 15 goals for Gotham FC, placing her one away from tying Carli Lloyd for the second most in club history. Her next goal will also be the 25th of her career, a mark that only 29 players in league history have reached.

HISTORY FOR FISHLOCK

Midfielder Jess Fishlock sits eight minutes away from history as she approaches 15,000 minutes played for OL Reign. The only other player with as many minutes for one club Reign teammate Lauren Barnes. Fishlock is also one assist away from the 25th of her career, a feat only accomplished by six players. She would be just the second to record 25 for one club.

COURAGE CRUSHING

With their next win, the North Carolina Courage will become the fourth NWSL club with 75 regular season wins. With a total of 245 goals scored, the Courage are the next club in line to reach 250, which would make them the sixth to do so. Team captain Denise O’Sullivan’s next start will be her 105th with the team, breaking a tie with Abby Erceg for the most in club history.

KC BABY

The Kansas City Current have multiple players approaching milestones, including Kristen Hamilton whose next goal will be the 25th of her career. Midfielder Lo’eau LaBonta’s next start will make her the first player to start 50 games for the Current, while the next appearance for midfielder Kate Del Fava will be the 50th of her career. Keeper AD Franch’s next shutout will be her tenth for the club, making her the third keeper to earn 10 for two clubs.

WEEK 19 MATCH SCHEDULE

September 15, 2023

Racing Louisville FC vs. Houston Dash | Lynn Family Stadium | 7:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

September 16, 2023

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Washington Spirit | Red Bull Arena | 7:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+ San Diego Wave FC vs. Kansas City Current | Snapdragon Stadium | 10 p.m. ET | Paramount+ Portland Thorns FC vs. OL Reign | Providence Park | 10:30 p.m. ET | Paramount+

September 17, 2023

Chicago Red Stars vs. Angel City FC | SeatGeek Stadium | 6 p.m. ET | CBS Sports Network Orlando Pride vs. North Carolina Courage | Exploria Stadium | 7 p.m. ET | Paramount+
