Last Updated October 22, 2024

WEEK 24: October 18-20

HAITI GOAL

Seattle Reign forward Nérilia Mondésir (Haiti) became the first Haitian player to score in the NWSL. She is also the 31st international player to score their first NWSL goal in 2024.

CHAWINGA IN THE HEADLINES

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) became the first player to score against all opponents in a single NWSL season with 10+ teams when she scored against the San Diego Wave during a 4-1 victory.

ZORNOZA FROM FAR

Utah Royals forward Claudia Zornoza’s (Spain) goal was the eighth out of 21 goals scored from outside the box during a 1-1 draw against Angel City FC.

WEEK 22: October 4-6

LUDMILA SHOW

Chicago Red Stars forward Ludmila (Brazil) notched a goal in her third straight match during a 2-0 win over the Houston Dash becoming the eighth Chicago player to score in three or more straight regular season games.

THREE PLAYERS, THREE GOALS

During the North Carolina Courage win over San Diego Wave FC forward Aline Gomes (Brazil) and midfielder Manaka Matsukubo (Japan) each registered a goal. For the Wave, forward Hanna Lundkvist (Sweden) halved the Courage lead in the 84th minute of action with a tally.

ESTHER THE GOALS

NJ/NY Gotham FC defeated Bay FC 5-1 with a brace and an assist from forward Esther (Spain) who became the second player in NWSL history to record three goal contributions as a substitute joining forward Mallory Swanson, who did so for Chicago in 2022. Esther’s three goal contributions came in a span of 4 minutes, 20 seconds, the fastest any player has been involved in three goals in a regular season match in NWSL history. For Bay FC, forward Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) scored her sixth tally of the season to lead the club in goals.

CHAWINGA 18

The Kansas City Current defeated Racing Louisville FC 2-0 with Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) officially matching the single season record of 18 goals after scoring the second-fastest goal for the club this season in one minute and 49 seconds.

TANAKA TALLY

Mina Tanaka (Japan) tallied a goal in the 50th minute of play to extend the Utah Royals FC lead against the Portland Thorns in a 2-1 victory.

A SHIELD FIT FOR THE GREATEST OF ALL TIME

The Orlando Pride clinched the club’s first-ever Shield on Sunday with a 2-0 victory over the Washington Spirit. Veteran forward Marta (Brazil) buried her 11th penalty kick goal of her career and is now tied for third most all-time in the regular season. The goal also marked her 39th career regular season tally tied the Brazilian international for 14th on the league’s all-time scoring list with former player Amy Rodriguez and current NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Crystal Dunn.

WEEK 21: September 27-29

KOUASSI ASSIST

Washington Spirit forward Rosemonde Kouassi (Côte d’Ivoire) tallied the assist on rookie forward Makenna Morris’s game-winning goal to defeat Angel City FC 2-1.

CHAWING-AGAIN

Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) notched her 17th goal of the season in a 1-1 draw against NJ/NY Gotham FC while midfielder Debinha (Brazil) was awarded the assist.

ROYALS STAY IN IT

Ana Tejada (Spain) clocked the game-winning goal to keep the Royal’s playoff hopes alive in the 78th minute with midfielder Claudia Zornoza (Spain) credited with the assist.

MORE GOALS, MORE DUBS

The Orlando Pride remain undefeated after beating the Houston Dash 3-1 with Angelina (Brazil) scoring the second goal in the 51st minute and Marta (Brazil) securing the win in the 92nd minute of action. Barbra Banda (Zambia) was credited with the assist on Marta’s goal. Dash forward Yuki Nagasato (Japan) halved the lead in the 53rd minute ending the Pride’s 554 minute streak of consecutive minutes without conceding a goal.

LUDMILA BACK-TO-BACK

Ludmila (Brazil) scored in back-to-back games notching a goal in the 68th minute in a 3-1 loss to the North Carolina Courage. Denise O’Sullivan (Ireland) scored in the 42nd minute while Kerolin (Brazil) cemented the win in the 65th minute, scoring for the first time since October 1, 2023.

ASISAT FROM THE SPOT

Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) buried her penalty kick against the Seattle Reign to lead the club to a 1-0 victory.

WEEK 20: September 20-23

BIRTHDAY BANGERS

The Kansas City Current defeated the Washington Spirit 3-0 with goals from Current forward Nichelle Prince (Canada) in the fourth minute, her first goal for the club and forward Temwa Chawinga's (Malawi) birthday banger in the 69th minute, her 16th of the season to lead the Golden Boot race. Midfielder Debinha (Brazil) notched an assist on Chawinga goal.

BANDA WAGON BACK ON TRACK

Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda (Zambia) put her name back on the scoresheet recording a goal in the 84th minute to take all three points from Bay FC. Goalkeeper Anna Moorhouse (England) set a new NWSL record with 12 shutouts earned by one player in a single season.

NAGASATO ROCKET

Houston Dash forward Yuki Nagasato (Japan) notched the lone goal against the Seattle Reign to give the Houston Dash the 1-0 win in the 50th minute, her first regular season goal for the club.

LUDMILLA TALLY

Chicago Red Stars forward Ludmila (Brazil) recorded her first NWSL goal in her third appearance to defeat the San Diego Wave scoring the 12th minute of play becoming the 10th Brazilian to score this season.

KEROLIN HITS THE FIELD

North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin (Brazil) made her first NWSL appearance since October 15, 2023, during the club’s 2-1 loss to Racing Louisville FC.

EMSLIE SEVEN

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) notched her seventh goal of the season to level the score in the 76th minute against the Portland Thorns.

MüLLER ASSIST

Portland Thorns FC midfielder Marie Müller (Germany) tallied the assist on forward Morgan Weaver’s goal to tie the game 1-1 in the 49th minute of play.

WEEK 19: September 13-16

BAY BACK-TO-BACK

Bay FC tied on the road against the North Carolina Courage with forward Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) recording a goal in the ninth minute of play to open the scoring. Oshoala has scored in back-to-back matches for the first time in her NWSL career.

GO AHEAD GOAL

Racing Louisville FC defeated Angel City FC in a come from behind victory with forward Janine Beckie (Canada) notching the go-ahead goal in the 68th minute off an assist from midfielder Ary Borges (Brazil).

WAVING TO THE ROYALS

The San Diego Wave FC defeated the Utah Royals 2-1 with forward Delphine Cascarino (France) notching a goal and an assist during the win. Utah Royals forward Cloé Lacasse (Canada) fought back to prevent the clean sheet in the 59th minute.

GOTHAM ON THE ROAD

NJ/NY Gotham FC defeated the Seattle Reign 2-0 with forward Esther (Spain) sealing the victory with a goal in the 85th minute, her third goal of the season. Goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger (Germany) recorded her sixth shutout of the season.

WEEK 18: September 6-8

WORLDWIDE GOALSCORERS

The seven game-winning goals in Week 18 were scored by players from seven different countries — Seattle Reign forward Tziarra King (United States), Washington Spirit midfielder Leicy Santos (Colombia), Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi), Bay FC forward Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria), NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Esther (Spain), Orlando Pride forward Marta (Brazil) and North Carolina Courage defender Feli Rauch (Germany) all hail from four continents (Africa, Europe, South America, North America).

ASISAT OSHO-GOAL-A

Bay FC forward Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) collected the ball in the box, from newest Bay signing forward Penelope Hocking, and put the ball in the back of the net to record the game-winning goal in the 1-0 victory over Racing Louisville FC. Oshoala leads Bay FC with four goals, three game-winning tallies this season.

JI SO-YUN STUNS

Seattle Reign FC recorded their third straight victory with a goal from midfielder Ji So-Yun (South Korea) in the 51st minute during second half stoppage time. The midfielder has scored in back-to-back wins for the Reign.

THE EQUALIZER AND THE GAME WINNER

Portland Thorns midfielder Hina Sugita (Japan) tallied a goal in the 49th minute of action for the Thorns in the club’s 2-1 loss to the Washington Spirit. The Spirit recorded the after forward Leicy Santos (Colombia) clocked the game-winner in the 96th minute off a cross from forward Trinity Rodman.

EIGHT STRAIGHT!

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) recorded a goal for the eighth straight game as she continues to extend her Golden Boot lead with 15 goals on the season.

ONE FOR ESTHER

NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Esther (Spain) tallied the game-winning goal in the 93rd minute of action to take all three points from the Houston Dash in a 2-1 victory. During the match, Dash forward Diana Ordóñez recorded a goal to bring the scoreline level.

MARTA PARTY

Orlando Pride forward Marta (Brazil) recorded a goal in the 37th minute to help extend her club’s unbeaten streak to 20 games dating back to October 15, 2023.

FELI’S FUN

North Carolina Courage defender Feli Rauch (Germany) scored in the 21st minute, one of four goals the Courage clocked against the San Diego Wave FC. San Diego Wave forward Kennedy Wesley recorded a goal with the assist coming from forward Maria Sanchez.

WEEK 17: August 30-September 1

CHAWINGA SHOOTS, CHAWINGA SCORES

Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) broke the league record with seven consecutive goals in regular season appearances. The Kansas City Current went on to lose to the North Carolina Courage 2-1 with forward Cortnee Vine (Australia) notching her first NWSL goal.

KUNDANANJI ASSIST

Bay FC forward Racheal Kundananji (Zambia) recorded an assist on forward Rachel Hill’s goal in the 18th minute that put the newest expansion club up 2-0 early in the first half. Bay FC went on to take home all three points in a 3-1 victory.

SHOWDOWN AT LYNN FAMILY STADIUM

Seattle Reign FC bested Racing Louisville FC in a 3-2 victory that saw Louisville forward Ary Borges (Brazil) open the scoring in the sixth minute. Seattle Reign fought back when midfielder Ji So-Yun (South Korea) brought the score level in the 75th minute of play.

HOUSTON, WE HAVE GOALSCORERS

The Utah Royals defeated the Houston Dash 3-1 on Saturday with defender Ana Tejada (Spain) putting the Royals up a goal in the 44th minute. The newest international signing Claudia Zornoza (Spain) buried her penalty kick attempt in the 55th minute and recorded an assist on Paige Monaghan’s goal. Dash midfielder Andressa Alves (Brazil) prevented the clean sheet by clocking a goal herself in the 73rd minute.

ADRIANA FOR TWO

The Orlando Pride’s unbeaten streak lives on after forward Adriana (Brazil) recorded her third career brace during the regular season notching goals in the sixth and 19th minutes of play.

WEEK 16: August 23-25

INTERNATIONAL DEBUTS

Last weekend’s return to play saw 11 international players make their NWSL debuts, representing 10 different countries. Notably, Kansas City Current midfielder Jereko (Kenya) became the first Kenyan to play in the NWSL last weekend, Seattle Reign FC forward Nérila Mondésir (Haiti) was the first Haitian-born player to hit the field, and Washington Spirit forward Rosemonde Kouassi (Côte d’Ivoire) debuted as the first Ivorian player in the NWSL.

Other international regular season debuts include Chicago Red Stars midfielder Julia Grosso (Canada), North Carolina Courage forward Cortnee Vine (Australia), Angel City FC midfielder Katie Zelem (England), NJ/NY Gotham FC defender Jess Carter (England), San Diego Wave forward Delphine Cascarino (France), Utah Royals forwards Cloé Lacasse (Canada) and Mina Tanaka (Japan), and midfielder Claudia Zornoza (Spain), and Washington Spirit forward Leicy Santos (Colombia).

PRIDE WIN AGAIN

Orlando Pride midfielder Angelina (Brazil) recorded the assist on fellow midfielder Summer Yates' lone goal in the clubs 1-0 win over the Houston Dash setting a new league record of 18 unbeaten games dating back to October 15, 2023.

KUNDANANJI STRIKES BACK

Bay FC forward Racheal Kundananji (Zambia) scored for Bay FC in the 83rd minute during the club’s 2-1 loss to the Utah Royals, her third goal of the season.

BRUNINHA ASSIST

NJ/NY Gotham FC midfielder Bruninha (Brazil) recorded the assist on forward Ella Stevens' goal in the seventh minute of play to give Gotham an early lead in the club’s 2-0 victory over the Portland Thorns.

SANCHEZ ASSIST

San Diego Wave FC midfielder Maria Sanchez (Mexico) tallied the assist on defender Abby Dahlkemper’s goal in the 97th minute to cut the scorline in half against rivals Angel City FC in the club’s 2-1 defeat.

RACING TO VICTORY

Racing Louisville forward Uchenna Kanu (Nigeria) opened the scoring in Louisville’s 3-1 victory over the Chicago Red Stars, her fifth goal of the season.

SPIRIT SHOW UP

The Washington Spirit handed the Kansas City Current their second defeat this season as forward Ouleymata Sarr (France) recorded her eighth goal this regular season in the 14th minute of action. Later on in the match, forward Leicy Santos (Colombia), making her league debut, scored in the 73rd minute to extend the Spirit’s lead.

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) pulled a goal back for the Current scoring the 64th minute of action, assisted by midfielder Debinha (Brazil). The goal marked the sixth straight regular season game Chawinga has registered a goal, tying the league record.

SUMMER CUP GROUP STAGE (7/26 - 7/28)

EMSLIE NUMBER TWO

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) recorded the second goal in Angel City FC’s shutout over Bay FC on July 26. Emslie has seven goals this season in all competitions.

TWO FOR DEBINHA

Kansas City Current midfielder Debinha (Brazil) notched a brace in the Current’s 3-0 win over Pachuca on July 27. The Current have six points heading into the final group stage match against Tigres.

HOUSTON VICTORY

Houston Dash forward Diana Ordóñez (Mexico) opened the scoring in the second minute while midfielder Barbara Olivieri (Venezuela) recorded the game winning goal in the 82nd minute to give the Dash the victory.

SUMMER CUP GROUP STAGE (7/19 - 7/21)

TEMWA ASSIST

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) recorded an assist on forward Michelle Cooper’s goal in the first minute of action. Cooper’s goal marked the second fastest goal in club history at 59 seconds.

PORTLAND OF GOALS

Portland Thorns forward Christine Sinclair (Canada) became the first player ever to score in the regular season, playoffs, Challenge Cup, Fall Series and Summer Cup. Forward Ana Dias (Portugal) recorded her first goal for the Thorns during the club’s 5-0 win over Tijuana.

TIE ORL NC

The North Carolina Courage earned an extra point over the Orlando Pride after winning on penalty kicks. Regulation ended in a 1-1 draw with Courage forward Manaka Matsukubo (Japan) opening the scoring and Pride defender Celia Jimenez (Spain) leveling the score for the Pride.

BORGES WINNER

Racing Louisville FC defeated Monterrey 3-1 with midfielder Ary Borges (Brazil) recording a goal in the 71st minute of action to seal the victory.

NAGASATO OUT SO FAR

Houston Dash forward Yuki Nagasato recorded her first goal of the season in all competitions with a long range shot that screamed past the keeper to tie the game in the 20th minute. The Dash went on to fall to the Kansas City Current 3-1.

WEEK 15: July 5-7

BERMUDA ASSIST

In the Chicago Red Stars 1-0 victory over the Houston Dash, midfielder Leilanni Nesbeth (Bermuda) recorded her first NWSL assist and the first assist by a Bermudian in the league on Mallory Swanson’s 23rd career goal for Chicago.

BANDA AND TEMWA

Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda (Zambia) took the Golden Boot lead in the 37th minute of Saturday’s battle of the unbeatens for her 12th goal of the season, but Kansas City Current’s forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) struck back 104 seconds later to move her total to 12 as well. Chawinga has six assists to Banda’s five and therefore holds the tiebreaker for first place in the scoring race. Pride midfielder Marta (Brazil) put away the game-winning penalty kick in the 63rd minute becoming the fifth player in league history to convert 10 penalties for a single club.

SARR GOES FAR

The Washington Spirit took down Bay FC on the road 3-0 with forward Ouleyemata Sarr (France) scoring her seventh goal of the season in the 57th minute.

MANAKA GO AHEAD

The North Carolina Courage overcame a halftime deficit for the first time in club history defeating Racing Louisville FC 3-1 with midfielder Manaka Matsukubo (Japan) putting away her first goal of the season and the go-ahead goal in Sunday’s match.

EMSLIE FROM THE SPOT

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) is 3-for-4 this season from the penalty spot after recording a goal against NJ/NY Gotham FC goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger (Germany) in the club’s 2-1 loss to the east coast rivals on Saturday.

WEEK 14: June 28-30

CHAWINGOALS

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) recorded her third brace of the season scoring two goals three minutes apart in the Current’s 2-0 win over the Houston Dash. Chawinga takes the top spot on the golden boot standings with 11 goals and six assists this season.

ADRIANA AND BANDA

The Orlando Pride extend their dominant unbeaten streak off a brace from forward Adriana (Brazil) and forward Barbra Banda’s (Zambia) 11th goal of the season. Midfielder Marta (Brazil) recorded the assist on Adriana’s first goal of the night.

OSHOALA FROM THE SPOT

Bay FC forward Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) stepped up to the penalty spot in the 76th minute in the club’s first ever penalty kick attempt and goal to win back-to-back matches.

WEEK 13: June 19-23

PRIDE BRACES

The Orlando Pride extended its unbeaten streak to 15 games after defeating the Utah Royals 6-0 off two braces from both Barbra Banda (Zambia) and Marta (Brazil). Banda also recorded two assists in the match.

CHAWINGA SHOOTS, CHAWINGA SCORES

The Kansas City Current extended their unbeaten streak tying the league record set by the Seattle Reign in 2016 securing a 4-1 victory over the Portland Thorns. Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) tallied her ninth goal in the win and is the league leader in shots on target recording 32 out of 44 total shots.

WEEK 12: June 14-16

CHAWINGA AND BIA AGAIN

Kansas City Current forwards Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) and Bia Zaneratto (Brazil) each recorded a goal in the club’s 2-2 draw with the Chicago Red Stars. Temwa has eight goals on the season while Bia has recorded five goals in 2024. Midfielder Debinha (Brazil) notched her second assist on Chawinga’s goal.

SANCHEZ ASSIST San Diego Wave midfielder Maria Sanchez (Mexico) recorded her first assist with the Wave off a goal from Jaedyn Shaw in the club’s 1-1 draw against the Washington Spirit.

WEEK 11: June 7-9

KANSAS CITY FIRE POWER

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) recorded a brace and an assist in the club’s dominant 5-2 victory over the Seattle Reign. Chawinga has jumped up to third in the Golden Boot race, two goals behind leader Portland Thorns forward Sophia Smith.

Center back Lauren (Brazil) became the club’s 16th different goal scorer this season recording a goal off an assist by fellow Brazilian Bia Zaneratto, the second Brazilian goal / assist combo this year and first for the Current. The club set the record for the most individual goal scorers in a season during Week 10 of action.

BERGER STOPPER

NJ/NY goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger (Germany) recorded her seventh straight win in goal after a 2-1 victory over Angel City FC tying the club keeper record for consecutive games without a loss held by current San Diego Wave FC and former Gotham FC goalie Kailen Sheridan’s seven wins in 2021.

SAVING SHERIDAN

During the club’s 1-1 draw against the Orlando Pride, San Diego goalkeeper Kailen Sheridan (Canada) became the first international and third keeper in league history to reach the 500-save milestone, joining Chicago Red Stars goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher and former Gotham FC goalkeeper Ashlyn Harris in the feat.

MARTA FOR 100

In Orlando’s 1-1 draw against the San Diego Wave, Marta (Brazil) checked into the game to start the second half, marking her 100th appearance for the Pride. Marta is the first Orlando player to reach the milestone.

JORDYN SCORIN’

Seattle Reign FC forward Jordyn Huitema (Canada) recorded her first goal of the season and her first career NWSL brace in a 5-2 loss against the Kansas City Current. With the two goals, Huitema became the youngest player to score multiple goals in a game for the Reign at 23 years, 1 month, 1 day old.

WEEK 10: May 23-25

BANDA WORLD

Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda (Zambia) is now tied with Portland Thorns forward Sophia Smith for the league brace lead with three this season. With her two-goal performance against the Thorns, Banda also tied the club record for braces in a single season set by teammate and fellow forward Marta in 2017.

SARR SOARS

Washington Spirit forward Ouleymata Sarr (France) notched her sixth goal this season in a 3-2 win over the Seattle Reign.

BRAZIL IN THE LEAGUE

Houston Dash defender Tarciane (Brazil) is the 27th Brazilian to play in the NWSL and seventh to play for the Dash. The 2024 season represents the biggest Brazilian contingent in league history with 15 players.

HOUSTON, WE GOT GOALS

Houston Dash midfielder Barbara Olivieri (Venezuela) recorded her first goal of the season off an assist by Michelle Alozie (Nigeria). In the 3-0 win over the North Carolina Courage, forward Diana Ordonez (Mexico) notched her fourth goal of the season and forward Ramona Bachman (Canada) scored off an assist by rookie forward Avery Patterson.

ESTHER IS HER

NJ/NY Gotham FC midfielder Esther (Spain) recorded her second assist of the season and her NWSL career on midfielder Ella Stevens goal in the club’s 2-0 win over Bay FC.

With a shutout, goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger (Germany) notched her third clean sheet in six games. The veteran keeper has not allowed more than one goal in any game.

WEEK 9: May 17-19

SUGITA TO DIAS

The Portland Thorns forward Ana Dias (Portugal) notched her first NWSL goal in a 2-0 win against the Houston Dash making her the first Portugal international to score in the league this year. Midfielder Hina Sugita (Japan) notched her third assist in her last five matches and 10th career regular season assist. Sugita is the ninth Thorns player to reach double digit assists for the club.

BANDA WANTS MORE

The Orlando Pride extended its impressive unbeaten streak and seventh straight win over the Seattle Reign thanks to forward Barbra Banda (Zambia) who has now scored in four of five starts and is tied for the fourth most single season goals for the club in six games. Banda sits comfortably in second place on the golden boot standings two goals behind Portland Thorns forward Sophia Smith.

DEBINHA ASSIST

Kansas City Current forward Debinha (Brazil) notched her 20th career regular season assist making her just 18th player to reach that milestone and the 13th player to achieve a career 20 goals and 20 assists.

WEEK 8: May 8-12

DEBINHA STRIKES

Kansas City Current midfielder Debinha (Brazil) tallied her 45th regular season goal remaining 9th in NWSL history for goals scored. This marked her first goal against her former club in the 1-0 win to help Kansas City stay unbeaten to start the 2024 campaign.

HINA SU-GOAL

With her third goal of season, Portland Thorns midfielder Hina Sugita (Japan) jumps to 10th on the Golden Boot chart, thanks to her two assists. Sugita helped Portland beat the Seattle Reign 4-0 in the Cascadia rivalry.

LUNDVKIST’S FIRSTS

San Diego Wave defender Hanna Lundvkist (Sweden) notched her first goal of the season in the 64th minute to bring the Wave level with east coast rivals and 2023 NWSL Champions Gotham FC in a 1-1 draw.

ANDRESSA ASSIST

Houston Dash midfielder Andressa Alves (Brazil) notched her first assist of the season in a thrilling late game-winning goal from defender Paige Nielsen against Angel City FC, Nielsen’s previous club.

ADRIANA FROM THE SPOT

Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda (Zambia) drew her second penalty of the season that gave way for teammate Adriana (Brazil) to calmly put the ball in the back of the net for her first goal of the season. The goal was all that was needed to keep the Pride’s unbeaten streak alive to begin the 2024 campaign.

WEEK 7: May 1-5

BANDA ON ATTACK

Orlando Pride forward Barbra Banda (Zambia) scored in three straight games for the Pride continuing a hot start to her NWSL career. Banda assisted Pride forward Ally Watt’s third career goal and notched a goal herself in the Pride’s win against the North Carolina Courage on May 1. Banda is also the first player in NWSL history to record a goal and an assist in each of her first two career starts. Through Week 7 she has four goals and two assists.

BERGER KEEPER Gotham FC goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger (Germany) is just the third German national team keeper to play in NWSL after Nadine Angerer played for the Portland Thorns and Almuth Schult with Angel City FC.

SUGITA THE ASSIST

Portland Thorns midfielder Hina Sugita (Japan) tallied her second assist of the season putting her with nine career regular season assists with the Thorns in the club’s 2-1 win against the Washington Spirit on May 4.

SINCLAIR THE GOAT

Portland Thorns forward Christine Sinclair (Canada) notched her 64th career regular season goal for the Portland Thorns on May 4. No player has more goals for one club than Sinclair.

EMSLIE KEEPS THE STREAK

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) is the first player for Angel City to score in three consecutive games. Most recently she scored in Angel City’s 2-1 win against the Utah Royals on May 3.

DANA FOEDERER GOAL

Utah Royals midfielder Dana Foederer (Netherlands) is the first Dutch player to score in NWSL since 2016. She scored her first NWSL goal in the Royals’ 2-1 home loss to Angel City.

WEEK 6: April 26-29

EMSLIE AGAIN

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) recorded her third goal in two games as she opened the scoring in the rematch against the Kansas City Current at BMO Stadium.

AFRI*CAN* SCORE

The 11 goals that have been scored by African players in 2024 are the most in a single year in NWSL history.

LAVOGEZ BRACE

Midfielder Claire Lavogez (France) notched her first brace of her NWSL career for the Kansas City Current propelling the club to a 3-1 win over Angel City FC.

ORLANDO CONNECTION

Orlando Pride midfielder Angelina (Brazil) recorded her first goal for the Pride from forward Barbra Banda’s (Zambia) first NWSL assist. Banda went on to notch her first goal of her NWSL career making her the seventh player in NWSL history to record a goal and an assist in her first career regular-season start.

BRAZILIANS IN THE LEAGUE

No club has rostered more Brazilian players than the Orlando Pride with 10 players all-time including the five that are rostered this season. Nine out of 14 clubs currently in the NWSL have rostered at least one Brazilian.

ZANERATTO ASSIST

Kansas City Current midfielder Bia Zaneratto jumped onto the leaderboard as she became the first player in Current history to contribute to at least one goal in four straight appearances and she joins teammate midfielder Vanessa DiBernardo in leading the league in assists with three and four assists, respectively.

WEEK 5: April 19-21

PRIDE PERFORMANCES

Orlando Pride forward and Zambian international Barbra Banda made her long awaited NWSL debut against San Diego taking three shots total, two on goal. Defender Rafaelle (Brazil) also came on as a second half substitute, her first appearance of the season after healing from a preseason injury.

KANU CAN SCORE

Racing Louisville forward Uchenna Kanu (Nigeria) recorded her fourth goal in five matches and helped secure Racing Louisville’s record 5-1 win over the Utah Royals.

BIA AND CHAWINGA UNSTOPPABLE

Kansas City Current forwards Bia Zaneratto (Brazil) and Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) joined the scoring fun also securing each of their fourth goals in five matches along with their first braces of the season. Bia and Chawinga are now tied for first in the golden boot race each with four goals and two assists in the 2024 campaign. They each have six goal contributions in five games

SINCLAIR SHOOTS

Portland Thorns forward Christine Sinclair (Canada) notches her 63rd regular season goal of her career all with the Portland Thorns. Her next goal will tie Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams for second most in league history in the regular season however, no one has more with one club. Sinclair is the only player to score in all 11 NWSL regular seasons.

SCHMIDT SHINES

Houston Dash midfielder Sophie Schmidt (Canada) is well past the 10,000-minute mark and is the fourth Canadian and 46th player overall to reach this regular season milestone.

EMSLIE BRACE

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) recorded her first brace of the season in a win against the North Carolina Courage. Her first goal came off a free kick just outside the box bending the ball around the outstretched hands of Casey Murphy and her second goal came after Emslie found herself outside the box again chipping the keeper to find the back of the net.

WEEK 4: April 12-14

CHAWINGA TO BIA CONNECTION

The Kansas City Current forwards Temwa Chawinga (Malawi) and Bia Zaneratto (Brazil) have solidified a successful chemistry after they connected on a goal for the second-straight match. The Current continue to hold the record for the most goals in the league with 12 tallies from nine different players so far. Both Chawinga and Bia have four goal contributions in their first four career games.

CLAIRE’S CREATION

Angel City FC forward Claire Emslie (Scotland) has created a league-high 17 chances for teammates so far this season, including seven from corner kicks. Emslie took three corner kicks and created two chances against the Chicago Red Stars in their 1-0 win.

ESTHER’S HEADER

Gotham FC forward Esther González (Spain) came up big early in the second half, scoring Gotham FC’s first home goal of the season off a header on the back post that lofted the ball over Kansas City Current goalkeeper AD Franch’s hands.

CONTINUING THE ATTACK

The exciting Sunday night NWSL After Dark action started early after both Bay FC forwards Asisat Oshoala (Nigeria) and Racheal Kundananji (Zambia) made multiple breakaway runs that Reign FC goalkeeper Claudia Dickey had to block or send over the bar. Bay FC outshot Seattle, 23-8, including nine combined shots for both African forwards.

JOIN THE BANDA WAGON

Barba Banda, the newest Zambian forward to join the NWSL, touched down in sunny Orlando, Florida on Sunday, April 14, greeted by fans excitedly awaiting her arrival at the airport. The Orlando Pride’s signing of Banda marked another record-breaking deal for the NWSL. Banda comes to Orlando after scoring 41 goals across 52 contests with the Shanghai Shengli. She has yet to debut for the Pride this season.

WEEK 3: MARCH 29-31

SAN DIEGO STARS

Australian midfielder Emily van Egmond was the hero for the San Diego Wave, scoring in the 98th minute to secure the club’s first win of the regular season against Seattle. Her goal is the Wave’s latest in regular season history. Swedish defender Hanna Lundkvist and Canadian goalkeeper Kailen Sheridan were also key players in San Diego’s victory. Lundkvist completed 29 of 37 passes while recording 10 possessions won and a game-high two blocks. Sheridan, who earned nine clean sheets last season, notched her first of the 2024 regular season, recording two saves.

KC FOR THREE

The Kansas City Current earned their league-leading third win on Saturday against Angel City, as international stars led the way to victory. Temwa Chawinga and Brazilian forward Bia Zaneratto each recorded a goal and an assist, as Chawinga became the first player from Malawi to score in the NWSL. Sydney Leroux scored for Angel City, with Scottish forward Claire Emslie earning an assist.

BRACING LOUISVILLE

Racing Louisville FC’s Uchenna Kanu tallied the fastest brace in NWSL history on Saturday, scoring twice in the first six minutes of a draw against the Portland Thorns. The Nigerian forward struck first in the third minute, recovering a loose ball in the box and firing a shot off the post and into the net. Kanu scored her second goal in the sixth minute, converting a header as rookie Reilyn Turner earned her second career assist.

PAYPAL PARK PANDEMONIUM

Bay FC’s first-ever home match at PayPal Park against the Houston Dash was a must-see game, as the clubs combined for five goals. Venezuelan midfielder Deyna Castellanos started the scoring in the 19th minute, firing a shot off the crossbar for her first NWSL goal. Houston responded with consecutive goals from forward Diana Ordóñez in the 66th and 87th minutes, with an assist from her Mexican Women’s National Team teammate María Sánchez. Bay FC tied the game in the 93rd minute, as Racheal Kundananji, the first Zambian player to play in the NWSL, recorded her first goal of the season. Midfielder Havana Solaun, a mainstay for Jamaica’s Women’s National Team, scored the game-winning goal 10 minutes into second half stoppage time.

SUNDAY SCORES

French forward Ouleymata Sarr scored her first goal of the season for the Washington Spirit, leading her club to a 2-1 victory against the Utah Royals in a Sunday matinee. Utah’s lone goal was scored by rookie Ally Sentnor, as Dutch midfielder Dana Foederer recorded her first NWSL assist along with two shots on target and three tackles won.

WEEK 2: MARCH 22-24

SET PIECE SUCCESS

The Orlando Pride and Angel City drew, 1-1, in their Week 2 matchup, as both clubs scored from set pieces. An early Orlando error in the second half set up Scottish forward Claire Emslie with a penalty kick in the 53rd minute, which she buried for the visiting Angel City. A pair of Brazilian international teammates connected for the equalizing goal in the 88th minute, as a corner kick for midfielder Angelina allowed Marta to score a beautiful goal, the 32nd of her NWSL career.

THRICE AS NICE

Three international players scored their first NWSL goals as the Red Stars defeated the Reign, 2-1, in the club’s 2024 home opener. Brazilian midfielder Julia Bianchi, who led Chicago in assists last season (5), scored her first NWSL goal in the 42nd minute to give her the club the lead heading into the half. Reign midfielder Ji So-Yun played a bouncing ball in the 62nd minute, lifting it over Alyssa Naeher to become first Korean player to score in the NWSL. German defender Maxi Rall secured the win for Chicago with her first NWSL goal in the 68th minute.

ASISAT’S ASSIST

After scoring the game-winner in her NWSL debut for Bay FC last week, Nigerian forward Asisat Oshoala earned her first NWSL assist against Washington in Week 2, setting up former Spirit midfielder Dorian Bailey for the goal against her former team in the 11th minute.

WORLD CUP STARS

San Diego Wave forward Sofia Jakobsson, who recorded two assists for Sweden in the 2023 Women’s World Cup, scored her first goal of the season in San Diego’s home opener against the Kansas City Current. Meanwhile, Gotham FC’s Esther, who won the World Cup last year with Spain, scored the game-winning goal in her club’s 2024 regular season debut, striking in the 72nd minute to earn the win for her club.

WEEK 1: MARCH 16-17

FIRST FOREIGN FRENZY

The 2024 regular season started with an electric nine-goal game, as the Kansas City Current defeated Portland Thorns FC, 5-4, in the first-ever match at CPKC Stadium. Brazilian forward Bia Zaneratto scored Kansas City’s third goal of the game in her league debut, while forward Tema Chawinga, the first Malawian international to play in the NWSL, assisted Alex Pfeiffer’s goal just five minutes after subbing in. Canadian forward Janine Beckie notched two goals for Portland in her return from a year-long absence due to injury, while three of the Thorns’ four goals were assisted by internationals making their NWSL debuts, including Canadian National Team captain Jessie Fleming. Fleming assisted the first of two goals for Sophia Smith, while Beckie found the back of the net with assists from Danish defender Isabella Obaze and German defender Marie Müller.

RAISING THE BAHR

Colombian forward Elexa Bahr made an instant impact for Racing Louisville FC, scoring just 13 minutes into her NWSL debut with an impressive chip. Bahr, a Georgia native, earned her first NWSL assist on a goal from Nigerian forward Uchenna Kanu in the 19th minute. Canadian international Amanda Allen helped the Orlando Pride come back to force a draw with her assist on Summer Yates’ goal in the 86th minute.

COURAGE COUNTRIES

The North Carolina Courage scored five goals against the Houston Dash, including two by Canadian forward Bianca St-Georges in her first match with the club. St-Georges' first goal was assisted by Japanese midfielder Manaka Matsukubo. Canadian midfielder Victoria Pickett assisted the final goal of the match, scored by former Angel City FC midfielder Dani Weatherholt. German defender Feli Rauch played every minute for the Courage in her NWSL debut, completing over 90% of her passes while recording 84 touches and eight possessions won.

RED STARS RUNNING

Three internationals played the entire match for the Chicago Red Stars in a win against Utah Royals FC. Finnish defender Natalia Kuikka completed 25 passes and totaled six possessions won in her Red Stars debut, while German defender Maxi Rall completed eight passes in the final third and recorded a game-high three blocks in her first NWSL appearance. Brazilian midfielder Julia Bianchi led both sides in tackles (4) and possessions won (11).

BAY’S BRILLIANCE

Nigerian forward Asisat Oshoala was excellent in her NWSL debut, scoring the game-winning goal in Bay FC’s 1-0 win against Angel City. Her shot, a rocket over the head of Angelina Anderson, earned her the first Goal of the Week honor of 2024, as voted on by fans. Canadian keeper Lysianne Proulx also had a stellar debut for the expansion side, earning a shutout with 10 saves, the most by any player in an NWSL debut.
