NWSL match action kicks off Friday night at the site of the 2025 NWSL Championship, PayPal Park in San Jose, CA. Bay FC is hosting the North Carolina Courage for a match that has so many playoff implications, practically every team with playoff hopes will be locked in until the final whistle. Make sure to tune in yourself, Friday at 10 p.m. ET on Prime Video.

The Courage’s season is on the line – anything less than a win could end their playoff hopes. A loss Friday night would not only eliminate North Carolina but also clinch playoff berths for Gotham, Seattle, San Diego, and Portland, making the game even more interesting for teams, players, and fans across the league. Bay FC, already out of contention, have nothing to lose and everything to prove in front of a passionate home crowd eager to end the season on a high note. It’s a true spoiler setup with ripple effects across the entire playoff picture.

Taylor Huff has had a consistently strong freshman season for Bay FC. The 21-year-old midfielder scored in back-to-back matches for the second time this season and is tied for the second-most goals among NWSL rookies (4). This season, she quickly became Bay’s creative spark and could cement her breakout campaign with another big performance under the lights at PayPal Park.

For North Carolina, Kaleigh Kurtz continues to redefine what it means to have courage. She just became the first player in NWSL history to reach 10,000 consecutive regular-season minutes, a streak unmatched across most of the sport. As the Courage fight to stay alive, her leadership and reliability will be vital in holding off an aggressive attack from a team who has nothing to lose.

Friday’s match gives fans another look at PayPal Park, which will host the 2025 NWSL Championship next month. It’s familiar territory for Bay FC fans but with the league’s biggest game quickly approaching, it adds an extra level of excitement to tune in to the last NWSL game in the stadium until then.

It’s Bay FC’s final home game of the season, and the club will want to close out Year Two with a statement. From record crowds across the Bay to breakout performances throughout the lineup, this season has shown clear growth and grit from a team continuing to build its identity. Expect an emotional night as Bay looks to reward its home fans with one more big moment before the curtain falls on 2025.
