The National Women's Soccer League today announced a multi-year partnership with TYLENOL®, making the trusted pain relief brand the Official Pain Reliever of the league. TYLENOL® will support the league’s growing community of elite athletes by providing fast, effective relief.

TYLENOL®, which is the #1 doctor-recommended pain relief brand, will bring its commitment to care to life throughout the season. The brand will stock and brand the league’s athletic trainer bags, receive exclusive marketing rights throughout the season and raise awareness for pain relief with robust integration during key moments, including the league’s inaugural Rivalry Weekend, presented by Ally (August 8–10). On-site, TYLENOL® will provide product gifting for players and staff, and highlight signage across all league games. The brand will also sponsor a dedicated content series and is planning a broadcast integration during Rivalry Weekend, presented by Ally. These activations are designed to support the athletic trainers, celebrate recovery, and spotlight the resilience of NWSL players throughout the season.

“The NWSL continues to break new ground by partnering with brands that see the value in showing up differently and meaningfully in the sports space and TYLENOL® is a trusted name known for prioritizing the health and wellbeing of athletes” said Matt Soloff, NWSL Senior Vice President of Partnerships and Business Development. “This partnership is built on the alignment of two brands that not only understand the physical and emotional demands of high performance but also recognize all of those who play a part in making our league great, from our players and athletic trainers to our dedicated fans. We’re proud to welcome TYLENOL® to the NWSL family and excited for what we’ll build together.”

TYLENOL® has a proud history of innovating to meet athletes' needs with fast-acting pain relief solutions and topical treatments. The brand also provides direct support for athletes on their road to their recovery through the TYLENOL® Care Commitment—a $1,000,000 pledge in collaboration with the Women’s Sports Foundation® to provide grants for injured women athletes facing financial and physical setbacks.

“At TYLENOL®, we believe in championing care through fast, effective pain relief so no player allows unwanted pains to take away from their love of the game,” said Jen Gow, Head of Pain, US, Kenvue. “We’re proud to support the NWSL and their players, and are honored to champion their athletic trainers on the sidelines this season as we equip them with the solutions they need to support athlete recovery.”

Together, TYLENOL® and the NWSL are committed to helping players stay healthy and providing the pain relief they need to perform at their best, on and off the field. It’s a natural partnership between two organizations united by a deep commitment to care, championing the health, resilience, and passion of women athletes who embody a true love of the game.

About National Women's Soccer League

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars, Denver FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About TYLENOL®

TYLENOL® – the #1 doctor-recommended brand of pain and fever relief – offers a growing portfolio of products designed to help people manage their health. From trusted OTC medicines to innovative topicals, TYLENOL® is committed to providing Care Without Limits™ by addressing a wide range of needs across ages and through every stage of life.
