It’s Rivalry Weekend presented by Ally in the NWSL, and it’s got everything. Longstanding regional hatred, an Amtrak series, and a SoCal Derby.

The San Diego Wave are hosting Angel City FC this weekend, and it is sure to be yet another nailbiter. Though this rivalry is young – much like the players on both sides — it doesn’t make it any less contentious.

Here's why you should tune in this Saturday, Aug. 9 at 10 PM ET on ION.

Like any good rivalry, proximity is key. Los Angeles and San Diego both have great weather and chill vibes, but the battle on the pitch is also a fight for SoCal supremacy. The NWSL social admin confirmed as much by asking players what makes a rivalry.

“San Diego and L.A. are fighting for who’s the best in California,” rookie Trinity Armstrong said.

An added layer here is that both clubs came up at the same time, even playing their first games in the NWSL against each other (2022 Challenge Cup).

In those 13 games, only two have been decided by more than one goal (2022 Challenge Cup West, SD 4-2; April 23, 2023, SD 2-0). This speaks to just how evenly matched these teams have been since their inceptions. The first matchup this season ended in a draw, so both the Wave and Angel City will surely be looking to grab more than one point this time around. The Wave are looking to crack back into the table’s top three while 11th place Angel City is hoping to get back into the playoff conversation.

With three goals all-time against San Diego, Alyssa Thompson hits her groove against the Wave. In fact, her first goals of 2024 and 2025 came against the Wave, including a brace to kick off her five-goal season last year. A little more than halfway through the season, Thompson has already matched her 2024 season total.

Her next goal against the Wave will tie her for the most goals scored against the club all-time, and she’ll be the first to do it all for one team. Depending on what side you land on, it’s either a tough pill to swallow or a sweet twist of the knife to have Thompson run her stats up against a rival.

To rub some salt water in the wound for San Diego, Thompson’s not only figured out how to break through offensively, she’s also among the homegrown talent that bolsters this rivalry. The battle to be the best in Southern California is made sweeter by the sheer number of players on both sides who are born and raised in or outside of both cities.

On Angel City, Alyssa and Gisele Thompson, Ali Riley, Christen Press, Lily Nabet, and Elizabeth Eddy are among some of the Southern California kids. For the Wave, Mel Barcenas, Kyra Carusa, Makenzy Robbe, Hillary Beall, and Nya Harrison represent that slice of the Golden State.

A rivalry is only as good as its fans, and if history is any indicator, the SoCal Derby will be as fun in the stands as it will be on the pitch. All seven of the season meetings between Angel City and San Diego have drawn at least 19,000 fans and five have drawn more than 20,000, including three sellouts. A rowdy crowd takes any rivalry to the next level.
