NEW YORK (March 12, 2026) - The National Women’s Soccer League today announced its international broadcast partners for the 2026 season. Coverage will span across major markets in Europe, Latin America, and Asia.

“The NWSL is home to the most elite players around the world, representing dozens of countries,” said NWSL Chief Operating Officer Sarah Jones Simmer. “These distribution partnerships allow fans around the world to follow their favorite players and clubs, strengthen the league’s global connection to the game and ensure the NWSL remains a central part of the international women’s football landscape as our season kicks off this week.”

ESPN will exclusively air three select matches per week and highlight packages in Sub-Saharan Africa

In Canada, TSN will exclusively air one select match per week, and One Soccer will exclusively air select matches

TV Azteca will exclusively air four select matches per week and highlight packages in Mexico and Central America

TNT Sports will exclusively air two select matches per week and highlight packages in the UK and Ireland

Australian-based broadcaster Stan will exclusively air four select matches per week and highlight packages

Canal Goat and XSports will exclusively air two select matches per week each and highlight packages in Brazil

Sky K will air one game per week and highlight packages in South Korea

Dubai TV will exclusively air two select matches per week and highlight packages in the Middle East and North Africa

All non-exclusive matches remain available to fans tuning in outside of the United States on NWSL+. Launched at the start of the 2024 season, the free direct-to-consumer service gives fans access to live matches as well as highlights, replays and other team content online and via streaming TV distributors Apple TV, Fire TV, and Roku TV.

For more information on how to watch NWSL+, click here.

In addition, all distributors will provide coverage of the 2026 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel. Further postseason coverage details will be available at a later date.

For fans in the U.S., 220 NWSL matches will air on national platforms this season, including CBS, ESPN, Prime Video, Scripps-owned ION, and Victory+. The remaining contests are available for free on NWSL+.

A weekly schedule of matches by international platform is available here.

TKO’s IMG advised and negotiated deals on the league’s behalf. Additional international distribution partnerships for 2026 will be announced on a rolling basis.
