NEW YORK (July 19, 2024) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced international coverage details for the upcoming NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup, kicking off this Friday, July 19.

Beginning this weekend, ESPN will exclusively carry Spanish-language coverage of Summer Cup in Mexico as well as, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama. NWSL+ will serve as the English and Spanish-language home for all remaining international territories.

ESPN’s coverage in Mexico, Central America and the Dominican Republic will include all 33 Summer Cup matches, including the semifinals and the Championship match, streaming live on ESPN on Disney+, with 12 group stage matches simulcasting on ESPN linear networks.

In the U.S., CBS Sports will be the exclusive English-language distributor of all 33 Summer Cup games, with every match set to stream live on Paramount+, 11 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Golazo Network and 12 matches simulcasting on CBS Sports Network, including the semifinals and championship match. Spanish-language coverage in the U.S. will be provided by TUDN, the sports programming branch of Spanish language network Univision, with three group stage matches, and NWSL+ for the remaining group stage matches.

Summer Cup action kicks off with a pair of intra-league contests this Friday as Seattle Reign FC host Utah Royals FC at Lumen Field, while Tigres faces Pachuca at Estadio Universitario in Monterrey.

Maven Clinic, the world’s largest virtual clinic for women’s and family health, will serve as an official partner of Summer Cup. Maven provides clinical, emotional, and financial support all in one platform, spanning fertility and family building, maternity and newborn care, parenting and pediatrics, and menopause.

Additional rules and regulations for the 2024 NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup can be found here. More information about NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup is available here.

Tickets for Summer Cup group stage matches are available by visiting each participating team’s website.

Tickets for both the Summer Cup semifinal round at CPKC Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, as well as the championship match at Toyota Field in San Antonio, Texas, will be available to the general public beginning at 12 p.m. ET on Friday, July 19 at https://www.nwslsoccer.com/nwsl-x-liga-mx-femenil-summer-cup.
