The first Monday in May is reserved for watching the most fashionable show out at the Met Gala. While the celebrities, athletes, and socialites walk the red (or, in the case of this year, midnight blue) carpet, the rest of the population kicks back in sweats, taking to social media to comment on the best of the night.

From Zendaya and Rihanna to Doechii and Coleman Domingo, this year's Met Gala had it all. There were even Sabrinas Ionescu and Carpenter!

The only statement piece missing? NWSL kits - the hottest spring/summer/fall/winter look.

Luckily, the NWSL social channels were looking out, answering the question on everyone's mind: What Met Gala looks were actually NWSL kits?

Everyone say thank you, NWSL admin!

Halle Berry showed up to the Met Gala in a stunning, form-fitting LaQuan Smith gown, but the vertical stripes were giving Washington's 2025 home kit. Based on how she sounded off in the comments, it seems like Croix Bethune was more than happy with the comparison.

Every time Gotham FC scores a goal at home, "Start a Riot" by Duckwrth and Shaboozey blasts through Sports Illustrated Stadium. Since Gotham FC and Shaboozey go together so well already, it makes sense that his fit matches the kit.

You might not be prepared for the accuracy though. He sported a black colored tank top with turquoise beads adorning the front in a pattern that is strikingly close to Gotham's home kit. His oversized, wide-brimmed black hat even tilted in the same fashion as the black diagnol stripe on Gotham's shirt.

The legendary Angela Bassett never misses. In her very first Met Gala, she showed up in a beautiful blue and black Burberry suit, but the pattern may seem familiar to NWSL fans. We couldn't help but notice a striking similarity to the San Diego Wave's home kit.

Just call it a ripple effect.

Denial may be a river, but there was no denying Doechii served on Monday night. In an ivory Louis Vuitton blazer and wide shorts, she made her Met Gala debut in style. Sarah Gorden in Angel City FC's home kit - subtly featuring LA landmarks - goes head-to-head with Doechii rocking the iconic LV pattern.

Angel City's Sydney Leroux agreed. She commented on Instagram, "We will gladly take Doechii. As the kids say... she ate."

These are just some of the best looks (and comparisons) from the night. You can see the rest in the NWSL's Instagram post below.
