NEW YORK (March 9, 2026) – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today unveiled its 2026 Season Kickoff marketing campaign, a league-wide initiative designed to build excitement and anticipation for the return of NWSL action. The campaign launches Monday with the debut of a new brand spot that captures the defining moments, star power and cultural momentum driving the league into the 2026 season kicking off Friday, March 13.

Featuring narration by all three members of the dynamic attacking trio known as “Triple Espresso,” Trinity Rodman, Mallory Swanson and Sophia Wilson, the campaign draws on the voices of some of the league’s most recognizable stars to reflect on the defining moments of the 2025 season and build anticipation for what lies ahead in 2026.\\ The spot also features last season’s leading rookie goal-scorer Riley Tiernan as well as two-time defending NWSL MVP Temwa Chawinga**.

The campaign centers on a series of defining moments from the 2025 season, including Rose Lavelle’s championship-winning strike for Gotham FC, Chawinga locking up the Golden Boot with her league-leading 15th goal, Rodman’s game-winner in her return against Portland and Bay FC’s record-breaking 40,000-plus crowd at Oracle Park. The spot concludes with the question “Imagine Missing This?”, inviting fans to be part of the next chapter of the league’s continued growth.

The campaign is set to music by Grammy nominated artist <a href="https://www.instagram.com/rei.ami/" target="blank">REI AMI</a>, the singing voice of the character Zoey on the 2025 smash hit *KPop Demon Hunters. REI AMI recently performed at both the BRIT Awards and BAFTA Awards and is scheduled to perform at the Oscars on March 15, the Sunday of Kickoff Weekend.

“The NWSL is in a league of its own right now—it’s bold, it’s cinematic, and its players are completely redefining the game,” said REI AMI. “Providing the soundtrack for this season’s kickoff is a massive honor because these athletes aren't just icons; they are culture-shifters.”

The spot will run across NWSL owned and operated platforms, paid social media and television beginning March 9, supported by the league’s broadcast and media partners to drive tune-in and engagement throughout Kickoff Weekend.

As part of the campaign rollout, the NWSL will debut a major digital presence in Times Square beginning March 9. The league’s placement at 46th Street and Broadway will run through March 29 and feature rotating creative that combines player footage and highlights from across the league.

To celebrate the start of the season with fans, the NWSL will host a Kickoff Watch Party on Saturday, March 14 at Bathhouse Studios in New York City’s East Village.

The event will run from 11:30 a.m. ET to 8 p.m. ET and will feature live screenings of three matches in their entirety, including Boston Legacy FC vs. Gotham FC, Kansas City Current vs. Utah Royals FC and Bay FC vs. Denver Summit FC.

Hosted by Ashanti Plummer and Milkyshake, the event will include fan activations such as photo opportunities, giveaways, merchandise, flash tattoos and nail art, along with food and beverages available for purchase. Alcohol will be available for purchase for guests 21 and older with valid identification.

The event is free to attend with RSVP via Eventbrite here.

2026 SEASON KICKOFF

The 2026 NWSL season will showcase the league’s world-class players, rising stars and fierce rivalries across clubs as the league continues to build momentum on and off the pitch.

Through integrated marketing, media partnerships and fan-focused activations across the country, the NWSL’s 2026 Kickoff campaign aims to make the opening of the season an unmissable moment for both longtime supporters and new fans discovering the league.

The 2026 NWSL regular season begins Friday, March 13, with all 16 clubs in action across opening weekend.

Friday night coverage on Prime Video opens with the 2025 NWSL Championship runner up Washington Spirit hosting Portland Thorns FC at Audi Field.

Saturday action includes a nationally televised matchup on ABC featuring NWSL debutante Boston Legacy FC and defending NWSL Champion Gotham FC. Saturday coverage continues with an ION tripleheader showcasing the launch of Denver Summit FC’s inaugural campaign, offseason acquisitions and emerging young talent across the league.

Opening weekend concludes Sunday with a Victory+ doubleheader featuring matches between Orlando Pride and Seattle Reign FC, and Angel City FC and Chicago Stars FC.

More information on how to watch NWSL matches in 2026, click here.
