Kansas City Current 5-1 Racing Louisville Bay FC 0-1 Gotham FC Utah Royals 0-1 Washington Spirit​

North Carolina Courage 5-0 Orlando Pride

Racing Louisville 2-1 Chicago Stars

Kansas City Current 1-1 Angel City FC

Houston Dash 0-1 Gotham FC

Bay FC 2-3 Seattle Reign

Washington Spirit 0-1 San Diego Wave

Utah Royals 5-1 Portland Thorns

Denver Summit 1-1 Boston Legacy

Trinity Rodman scored the game-winner in her 100th regular season appearance on Wednesday night. She is the youngest player to reach that milestone.

Evelyn Ijeh scored her first NWSL hat trick as part of the North Carolina Courage’s statement win over the Orlando Pride. This is the eighth hat trick in Courage history, the most by any club in the NWSL.

First NWSL goals:

Lauryn Thompson (North Carolina)

Taylor Suarez (Angel City)

Mirann Gacioach (Louisville)

Hannah Bebar (Bay)

Amelia White (Kansas City)

Former Chelsea teammates Sam Kerr and Guro Reiten link up for the first time at Gotham.

San Diego’s Kimmi Ascanio made her 50th regular season appearance, making her the youngest player to do so at 18 years and 193 days.

Cloé Lacasse earned three assists, and now leads the Royals with 13 goal contributions, a single season record for the club.

With an assist against the Royals, Pietra Tordin became just the 10th player in NWSL history to reach eight assists in the regular season.

Taryn Torres returned to the pitch for Gotham for the first time since September 2025.

Three midweek matches bridged the gap between the weekend slates, and while both Gotham and the Spirit earned 1-0 wins, the Kansas City Current unleashed on Racing Louisville. Both Debinha and Haley Hopkins scored braces, and Amelia White scored her first NWSL goal. Midge Purce and Trinity Rodman scored goals for their clubs in wins over Bay and Utah respectively.

What does 3 games x 5 goals equal? NWSL Matchweek 15.

The Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, and Utah Royals all had a marvelous time scoring five goals each on their way to wins.

Led by braces from both Haley Hopkins and Debinha, the Current kept their home unbeaten streak alive at 25 with a 5-1 win over Racing Louisville. Meanwhile in North Carolina, Evelyn Ijeh’s first NWSL hat trick and a goal apiece for Lauryn Thompson and Ashley Sanchez gave the Courage a 5-0 win over the Orlando Pride.

The third may be the most stunning. After Sophia Wilson put the Portland Thorns up just 34 seconds into the match, the Utah Royals scored five unanswered goals – a Cece Delzer brace, Brecken Mozingo’s first of the year, and a beautiful one-touch backheel finish from Kiana Palacios. Cloé Lacasse earned three assists to set a new single season club record for goal contributions (13) and assists (7).

Led by braces from both Haley Hopkins and Debinha, the Current kept their home unbeaten streak alive at 25 with a 5-1 win over Racing Louisville. Meanwhile in North Carolina, Evelyn Ijeh’s first NWSL hat trick and a goal apiece for Lauryn Thompson and Ashley Sanchez gave the Courage a 5-0 win over the Orlando Pride.

The third may be the most stunning. After Sophia Wilson put the Portland Thorns up just 34 seconds into the match, the Utah Royals scored five unanswered goals – a Cece Delzer brace, Brecken Mozingo’s first of the year, and a beautiful one-touch backheel finish from Kiana Palacios. Cloé Lacasse earned three assists to set a new single season club record for goal contributions (13) and assists (7).

When Jess Fishlock went down with an injury after announcing her retirement at the end of the season, NWSL fans everywhere held their collective breath. An NWSL OG deserves her swan song, but lest we forget: Jess Fishlock is inevitable.

Fishlock scored the game-winning goal for Seattle, her first since returning to the pitch and it came less than a minute after subbing on. It was just her second appearance for the Reign since getting hurt in April – a total of 13 minutes between the two matches.

In honor of Cancer Awareness Day, the Spirit invited a fan named Taylor to spend the day with the club. She served as the honorary captain, walked in with Trinity Rodman, and got to join the Spirit on the pitch postgame.

After Denver’s match against Boston, Carson Pickett met a fan with the same limb difference. Pickett said hi to the fan in the stands, brought her down to the pitch, signed her jersey and posed for a picture.

The moms of the NWSL keep proving what strength means. Abby Dahlkemper and Vanessa DiBernardo made their returns from maternity leave for Bay on Wednesday night. Then after a 1-1 draw between Angel City and Kansas City, fellow new mom Claire Emslie posed for a picture with DiBernardo and their kids.

It was an interesting week for Racing Louisville, who sandwiched two wins around a tough 5-1 midweek loss to Kansas City. Over the weekend, Racing scored two goals in six minutes, which ultimately led the club to a 2-1 win over the Chicago Stars.

Mirann Gacioach scored her first professional goal, and Kayla Fischer scored her fourth of the season. Arin Wright and Emma Sears earned the assists, but it was Wright’s son, Grady, who gets credit for the celly. He puts in celly requests with his mom (like the macarena), and this weekend, Wright and her teammates delivered.
