NEW YORK (March 31, 2025) – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and AT&T today announced a groundbreaking multi-year sponsorship that will make AT&T the league’s official connectivity partner. This strategic collaboration underscores the continued commitment of the NWSL and AT&T to empowering women in sports, uplifting communities, and enhancing fan connectivity through innovative technology and engagement platforms.

The partnership is the latest in a series of major sponsorship announcements for the NWSL, following the recent additions of e.l.f. and Unwell as official league partners earlier this month.

“We’re excited to welcome AT&T to the NWSL family. Their commitment to connectivity, community and innovation aligns perfectly with our mission to elevate the game and create new opportunities for our players and fans,” said NWSL Senior Vice President of Partnerships Matt Soloff. “This partnership is about more than technology - it’s about investing in the future of women’s sports and we’re just getting started.”

Key elements of the sponsorship include:

AT&T will be the presenting sponsor of the league’s first-ever NWSL Awards Show, as well as the NWSL MVP award.

AT&T will sponsor the Player of the Week award, a content series highlighting top weekly performances across the league.

AT&T will activate at the league’s marquee events, including the NWSL Championship, by providing fan activations and engagement zones.

AT&T will also receive prominent in-stadium branding, including LED field boards and permanent goal-line signage.

"Becoming the official connectivity partner of the National Women's Soccer League underscores AT&T’s long-standing commitment to supporting women's sports,” said Sabina Ahmed, Assistant Vice President of Media and Sponsorships at AT&T. “We believe connecting changes everything, and supporting women is essential for the growth of sports globally. AT&T is proud to connect the players, fans, and communities on this exciting journey.”

As part of a strategic technology integration, the NWSL and AT&T will also collaborate annually on ways to incorporate AT&T’s innovative products and services to enhance league operations and storytelling capabilities.

This month, the NWSL kicked off its 2025 regular season with stellar performances from the league’s brightest stars and exciting debut appearances from new talents. The 2025 season is poised to build on the success of a 2024 campaign that saw continued record-breaking growth across the league, including a 285% increase in broadcast viewership, a 47% increase in match attendance and the first season in league history to welcome over two million fans.

For more information on how to watch matches in 2025, click here.

ABOUT NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver NWSL, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

ABOUT AT&T

We help more than 100 million U.S. families, friends and neighbors, plus nearly 2.5 million businesses, connect to greater possibility. From the first phone call 140+ years ago to our 5G wireless and multi-gig internet offerings today, we @ATT innovate to improve lives. For more information about AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T), please visit us at about.att.com. Investors can learn more at investors.att.com.
