Christen Press is beloved by fans of women’s soccer. While a lot of it has to do with her performance on the pitch, her relatability, openness, and humor cemented Press in their hearts.

That character was on full display when Press spoke with Make Big Talk, an organization dedicated to fighting the loneliness epidemic by promoting genuine and vulnerable conversation and connection. In a video series, Make Big Talk asks people thoughtful questions that go well beyond “How are you today?”

For Press, it was largely a conversation about dealing with the loss of her mother just before the 2019 Women’s World Cup.

“I do talk to my mom every day,” she said. “I think when you lose someone in a physical form, you actually get them in a more infinite form.”

Press said soccer was – and still is – something that connects her to her mom.

“I spent thousands of hours on the field with her. She would watch like, VHS tapes of Pelé and Mia Hamm and then try to show me how to shoot,” Press said. “Sometimes when I’m really, like, desperate to score, I ask my mom to help me. And usually when my mom helps me, I score a goal, like with my head or in a way that I don’t normally score. And then I know it’s my mom."

Press was asked what her dream in life is, and the answer may surprise fans. She said she’d move to another country and grow wildflowers.

“It’s my fantasy because I’m very type A, a professional athlete, and I’m CEO of a company, and it’s high stress all the time,” she said. “I have this fantasy where I leave, you know, capitalism and like, this world and I just grow flowers and I just deliver them to people.”

It’s not a conversation with Press without a drop of wisdom, and when asked what message she has to share with the world, she didn’t disappoint.

“I think a lot about what it takes to have a strong and impactful contribution,” she said. “I think if we all could take care of ourselves a bit more and spend a little bit more time with ourselves, with our inner children, with our unhealed parts, I think we would have a more natural, energetic way of helping others. And I think the world would be a little bit more peaceful.”

You can watch the whole video below.
