With the2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, just around the corner on January 12, a talented group of players has already registered for selection as they prepare to begin their professional careers. Players may register here until 11:59 p.m. ET on Monday, January 8.

With the 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, just around the corner on January 12, a talented group of players has already registered for selection as they prepare to begin their professional careers. Players may register here until 11:59 p.m. ET on Monday, January 8.The 2024 NWSL Draft, presented by Ally, will take place on Friday, January 12, at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET during the United Soccer Coaches Convention at the Anaheim Convention Center in Anaheim, California. The event is free and open to the public. Live coverage will be televised on ION from 8 to 10 p.m. ET. All rounds of the draft will be streamed on ION Plus. Viewers can find access to ION in their area or via streaming platform by visiting https://iontelevision.com/find-us. Fans tuning in to the NWSL Draft outside the U.S. can watch the entirety of the event on Watch.NWSLSoccer.com. See below for more on some of the top prospects heading into this year’s draft. A live tracker with the most up-to-date list of registered players is available here.

Ally Cook – Forward, UCLA

After earning All-Pac-12 Third Team honors two years in a row, UCLA forward Ally Cook returned for a fifth college season in 2023 and earned a First Team selection while starting all 19 matches for the Bruins. Cook’s nine goals ranked second on the team and fifth in the Pac-12. She caught fire from the jump, scoring a goal in her first three matches and an assist in the third game, a 4-0 win against UC Irvine. The forward rattled off another three-game scoring streak a month later, notching goals against Washington and Washington State after recording a brace against Colorado, winning all three matches on the road. UCLA won all eight games that Cook scored in this season.

Avery Patterson – Forward, North Carolina

North Carolina’s co-captain Avery Patterson had an excellent senior season, earning All-ACC First Team and Third Team All-America honors while scoring nine goals in 22 matches. Patterson scored in three consecutive games twice last fall, notching goals against SEC opponents Arkansas, South Carolina and Alabama. Against conference opponents, she tallied goals against Wake Forest and Notre Dame and capped off her streak with a two-goal performance in a 6-1 win over Syracuse.

Anna Podojil – Forward, Arkansas

Anna Podojil enters the NWSL Draft after earning numerous accolades in her five seasons at Arkansas, finishing her college career as the program’s all-time leader in goals (50), game-winners (15) and points (135). Podojil earned All-SEC First Team honors in each of her first four seasons and was selected to the All-SEC second team in 2023. The Cincinnati native is also a four-time All-American, earning First Team honors in 2020 and 2021 and Third Team honors in 2019 and 2022. Podojil’s resume also includes an SEC Freshman of the Year award (2019), SEC Forward of the Year (2020) and a selection as a MAC Hermann Trophy semifinalist (2020).

Laveni Vaka – Defender, BYU

Laveni Vaka turned heads in her senior season while leading BYU to the NCAA semifinal. With Vaka leading the defense, the Cougars allowed just 28 goals in 26 matches and recorded nine shutouts, including the first two games of the NCAA Tournament. BYU finished with the best record in the Big 12 at 20-3-3, including a perfect 5-0 record on the road against conference opponents. Vaka was recognized as a First Team All-American as well as an All-Big 12 First Team selection and was named a MAC Hermann Trophy semifinalist.

Kennedy Wesley – Defender, Stanford

Kennedy Wesley wrapped up her impressive five-year career at Stanford with numerous highlights. The Cardinal captain started the 2023 season by recording both her first NCAA goal and assist in the season opener. Just two weeks later, she notched a goal and two assists in a 4-0 win against Duke. Wesley finished the year with four goals and six assists while leading Stanford to the NCAA championship game and earning All-Pac-12 First Team honors. She enters the NWSL Draft with a resume that also includes an NCAA Championship (2019), two Pac-12 Championships (2019 and 2022), an All-Pac-12 Second Team selection (2022) and an All-Pac-12 Third Team selection (2021).
