NEW YORK (September 6, 2024) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Prime, for the month of August by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Six teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including the Angel City FC, Bay FC, the Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, the Orlando Pride and Racing Louisville FC.

GK – Didi Haračić (LA): Haračić recorded 10 saves in three games played with one clean sheet. The Bosnian goalkeeper added three punches in 270 minutes played.

D – Sarah Gorden (LA): Gorden earned back-to-back Best XI honors after helping her club record one clean sheet in August while registering a passing accuracy of 83.2% in 270 minutes played.

D – Kerry Abello (ORL): Abello recorded an assist in the club’s 1-1 draw over Racing Louisville during the 2024 Summer Cup tournament on August 1. Playing 153 minutes this month, Abello helped her club extend its undefeated streak to 19 games dating back to October 15, 2023.

D – Kylie Strom (ORL): Kylie Strom earned a spot on the Best XI after playing in two matches recording a passing accuracy of 91.4 percent. The New York native helped her club record one clean sheet and remain undefeated this 2024 campaign.

D – Abby Dahlkemper (BAY): Dahlkemper started her stellar performance with the San Diego Wave FC before being traded to Bay FC for the latter half of August. Playing two games with the Wave, Dahlkemper recorded one goal in the club’s 2-1 loss to Angel City FC. She went on to make an immediate impact with Bay FC, notching a goal in her club debut against the Portland Thorns.

M – Debinha (KC): The Brazilian international recorded two goals and one assist in three games played. Debinha added six successful dribbles past opponents along with six shots, three on target in 233 minutes played.

M – Lo’eau LaBonta (KC): LaBonta recorded one goal throughout August to earn her third straight Best XI award. The California native played 270 minutes throughout the month including five tackles won and four shots.

M - Kayla Fischer (LOU): Fischer played two games recording one goal and one assist in the club’s 3-1 victory over the Chicago Red Stars on August 24. Playing 79 minutes throughout the month Fischer added four successful dribbles past opponents.

F – Temwa Chawinga (KC): The Malawi international played in two games this month recording two goals along with five shots on target. Chawinga recently set a new league record scoring in seven consecutive regular season appearances.

F – Ella Stevens (GFC): Also named August Player of the Month, presented by EA SPORTS, the Georgia native recorded three goals and added two assists in August. The former Duke University Blue Devil notched one goal and two assists on August 2 during the club’s Summer Cup group stage victory over Guadalajara.

F – Alyssa Thompson (LA): Angel City FC youngster Alyssa Thompson recorded a brace during the club’s 2-1 victory over San Diego Wave FC on August 24th. Playing in three games throughout August, Thompson registered 11 tackles won and six shots, three on target.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of August are based off performances in both regular season and NWSL x LIGA MX Femenil Summer Cup matches.
