Greetings,

Greetings,On behalf of the NWSL, join me in celebrating the start of our 11th year! I wanted to take a few minutes of your valuable time to tell you why we are so excited for what we know will be a landmark season for the NWSL. World Cup years bring a different sort of energy, and we are here for it. First and foremost, we have worked very hard to earn the trust of our players. The systemic reform work is underway and ongoing, and we will continue our efforts to make this league a safe, healthy ecosystem where players have the resources they need to succeed, excite, and entertain our growing fanbase. Our potential is limitless with their support. I’m thankful to every one of them for their excellence and professionalism, but maybe most critically, for their partnership. Working together, this league knows no bounds. And as that foundational work continues, we’ve also made changes and updates that will elevate the quality of the matches you’ve come to love. Last summer we promised you VAR and I’m proud to say that we are delivering on that promise starting with this weekend’s opening matches and throughout the season. We know this investment will continue to elevate the experience of our players and fans alike. On the broadcast side of our business, we’ve made significant investments to improve your viewing experience. We’ve added more and better cameras for each match, increased staffing levels onsite and at our studios, and importantly, retained the services of an experienced and recognizable list of broadcasters to call every NWSL game. The storytelling around our players has never been more robust. Earlier this week we released our #WePlayHere campaign spot to launch our kickoff campaign. You can watch that video HERE which is also available in Spanish and Portuguese. Whether it’s content like that, the release of our kits and other merchandise, the deep storytelling the league and each of our clubs are doing in the social space, and the many initiatives underway from our partners. As is the case with any emerging business, we’re nowhere near done with our work. But we are better today than we were yesterday, and that will be true tomorrow as well. A better league for our players, a better business for our partners, a better experience for our fans. We are lucky to be on this journey with all of you, and whether you are watching or attending a match for the first time or have been with us since day one, we will never take the trust you have placed with us for granted. We thank you for joining us on this incredible journey. We’re ready, are you? Sincerely, Commissioner Berman
