Week 20 is here, and while no team can clinch a playoff spot or be eliminated, every result has the potential to impact the playoff race. Kansas City have already locked in a home quarterfinal, but the Shield chase is still alive for them and five other clubs. This weekend could see that chase narrow to two contenders. With some teams hitting a late-season heater and the playoff race tightening every day, this weekend is going to be entertaining from beginning to end. Here’s what to watch around the league!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Prime Video

Last weekend could have gone better for San Diego, but there’s plenty of time to course correct and what better way to seek a morale booster than defeating a tough opponent at home on Prime television! They’ll need Kailen Sheridan’s shot-stopping and creators Adriana Leon, Delphine Cascarino, and Kenza Dali to jump-start an attack that has been stagnant since summer break ended. In contrast, Gotham heads into the weekend in form, riding a three-match unbeaten run and a stellar away record. Behind Golden Boot leader Esther González (12) and a midfield clicking with Rose Lavelle and long-range threat Jaelin Howell (goals in back-to-back games from distance), Gotham’s attack is only bolstered by the recent addition of Jaedyn Shaw from the Courage. San Diego has historically fared well in this series, but Gotham’s defensive record on the road sets up a tight, high-stakes meeting.

How to watch: Prime Video

Heading into the weekend, North Carolina look to extend a seven-match home unbeaten run while snapping a recent six-match overall winless record, leaning on defender Kaleigh Kurtz’s reliability and Manaka Matsukubo’s creativity in a matchup that has produced late drama in recent editions. Angel City counters with rookie scorer Riley Tiernan (8) and the fast-starting Kennedy Fuller, plus the work rate of new addition Sveindís Jónsdóttir. With the Courage both scoring and conceding more than any club after the 80th minute this season, and ACFC frequently striking early away from home, game-state management could decide this one.

How to watch: ION

The NWSL always delivers chaos, whether it’s last season’s last place team rising the ranks to champion or last season’s champion struggling to defend their title. This season has been no different, with 2024 defending NWSL Champs Orlando Pride winless in their last seven matches and looking to avoid a rare fourth straight defeat this weekend against the Bay. Bay enters on an eight-match winless stretch but continues to create moments through Taylor Huff, Racheal Kundananji, and goalkeeper Jordan Silkowitz, who posted seven saves against Kansas City and almost scored against the Spirit the week before. The Pride have won all three prior meetings 1–0 and with both sides desperate for a result to stabilize their playoff pushes, a single breakthrough could prove decisive.

How to watch: ION

First-place Kansas City, owners of a league-record seven straight clean sheets and 49 points through week 19, host a surging Spirit side unbeaten in seven and dangerous in sustained build-ups through Croix Bethune, Leicy Santos, and Sofia Cantore. The Current’s attack remains multifaceted with Temwa Chawinga (12), Debinha, and Michelle Cooper, while Washington counters with Trinity Rodman, in form and fully match fit, and a road record among the league’s best. The Current can’t clinch the NWSL Shield this weekend but with a win, they would be one step closer to grabbing their first major trophy in franchise history.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

Fresh off a 5–2 statement win, Chicago are unbeaten in six games but head into a matchup with a Portland side that just mounted a late comeback on the road. The Stars’ attack is humming with Ludmila on a four-game scoring streak and a late push in the Golden Boot race, and contributors popping up across the front line. However, the Thorns counter with their latest acquisition, French forward Julie Dufour, and supply from Sam Coffey and Jessie Fleming. The playoff race is tightening and both teams have a chance at a spot if they continue their week 19 performances.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

Utah’s four-match unbeaten run has been powered by resilient defending and timely contributions from Paige Monaghan, Bianca St-Georges, and Mina Tanaka, plus standout goalkeeping from Mandy McGlynn. Houston, however, have an unbeaten streak of their own with six, many of them hard-fought wins. One of their secret weapons? Impactful substitutes. And recent signing Clarissa Larisey, whose goal-and-assist debut start last weekend proved decisive in their road win, will surely be key for their offense going forward. Paired with Jane Campbell and Paige Nielsen anchoring an increasingly confident back line,this matchup is a recipe for a must-watch.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

Reign FC is back home this weekend and will need to lean on veteran leadership and a compact back line after last week’s tough loss in D.C. Racing, despite a loss of their own last weekend, travel well and continue to trend upward, propelled by Emma Sears’ scoring touch and the stout leadership of head coach Bev Yanez, while goalkeeper Jordyn Bloomer is in the midst of a penalty-save hot streak. The Reign are unbeaten against Racing in regular-season play, but Louisville has shown this year, as they push for their first-ever playoff appearance, they aren’t a team to count out.
