Week 23 Preview:

It’s Week 23 in the NWSL, and that means the regular season is winding down. Two teams have clinched playoff spots after the Spirit’s Week 22 win, and that means only six more places are up for grabs. With standings neighbors going head to head, two teams on the cusp of elimination, and clubs trying to secure their place in the postseason, every team has something to fight for. Here’s what you can expect!

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Prime Video

NWSL fans, we have lift off in Houston this Friday night. It’s everyone’s favorite Space Race, Houston Dash vs. the Orlando Pride, and both teams are entering the weekend in markedly different energies. The Dash, despite coming off a 4-0 shutout defeat last weekend against a clinical Washington Spirit, have been on the rise since the summer. Houston bolstered their offense with recent signing, Chloe Ricketts, but they’ll still need to contend with the Pride’s own newcomer – forward Jacqui Ovalle – who scored her first NWSL goal last weekend. With the Pride firmly in the middle of the playoff table and the Dash just three points out from a spot of their own, it’s a high stakes match, the perfect appetizer for the rest of the weekend.

How to watch: ION

North Carolina (No. 9) and Louisville (No. 8) are on opposite sides of the playoff line, separated by just a point. After a rocky start to the second half of the season, Louisville got a much-needed win last week, setting club records for wins (8) and points (29). Racing keeper Jordyn Bloomer continues her breakout season, collecting her fourth clean sheet in Week 22, and she will certainly not make it easy on a Courage offense led by Manaka Matsukubo. Racing will be going up against a North Carolina team who is undefeated in their last straight home matches and a defense led by Kaleigh Kurtz, who is well on her way to her fourth ironwoman season.

How to watch: ION

Both the Thorns and Bay FC had crushing losses last week but they’ll need to shake it off, especially ahead of this weekend. For the Thorns, they’re back home and while they sit in sixth in the standings, their playoff spot is anything but certain. Recent signing M.A. Vignola will go a long way on the defensive end for them. And for Bay, a loss this weekend will see them eliminated from the postseason, a disappointing finish for their sophomore season after making the playoffs in their inaugural one. But there’s one more thing the Thorns are playing for – or rather, one more person. This Saturday, the Thorns will honor former player Christine Sinclair, who retired at the end of last season. The Canadian international and NWSL Original played for Portland for 11 years and helped lead them to three NWSL titles and two NWSL Shields. A win for the home team would be the perfect way to honor a legend.

How to watch: ESPN & ESPN+

The Washington Spirit punched their ticket to the playoffs last weekend and now face their next obstacle: securing homefield advantage. Historically, when the Wave roll into D.C., it’s a barnburner. In the last three times Washington have hosted San Diego, the teams have scored a combined 13 goals. Between Trinity Rodman and Croix Bethune proving to be the dynamic duo and Gift Monday’s hat trick in Week 22, the Spirit’s offense is clicking. It may prove tough for San Diego to slow down the momentum. While Rowdy Audi is a tough place for visiting teams, the Wave are unbeaten in eight straight regular season away matches. With Dudinha opening her NWSL scoring account – making her the Wave’s 16th goal scorer this season – look for San Diego to put up a fight to move back towards the top of the table. Get your popcorn ready for this one.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

After defeating Portland last week, Gotham FC welcomes the other half of the Cascadia rivalry to New Jersey Sunday afternoon but this one is riding the high of a hard-fought win at home. Last weekend, Reign FC overcame a tough Courage team 2-1 thanks to an own goal forced by Jordyn Huitema and rookie Maddie Dahlien’s fourth goal of the season. All of Dahlien’s goals this season have been game winners, a first in NWSL history, making her someone you want to have on the field to close out a game. But Gotham, currently second in the league with the least amount of goals scored against (18) is stingy on the defensive end, which is capped off by Olympian goalkeeper Ann-Katrin Berger.

How to watch: Paramount+ & NWSL+

It’s the tale of two seasons for both clubs. If the NWSL season boiled down to the last five games, both Utah and Chicago would be playoff teams. In fact, the Royals would be No. 3. After eight straight defeats at home, the Stars are now undefeated in their last six home matches. The Royals, on the other hand, have scored 10 goals in the last five matches, almost as many as they scored through Week 17. While Chicago were eliminated from playoff contention last week, the Stars are keen to play spoiler, as Utah are still clinging on to hope. Royals captain Paige Monaghan has five goal contributions in as many games. The Stars, even with the great Alyssa Naeher in net, have yet to win this season when they’ve conceded a goal first. If the Stars want to dash the Royals’ slim playoff chances, they may need to get on the board first.

How to watch: CBSSN

If you thought NWSL was over on Sunday, we have a surprise for you! On Monday evening, the 2025 NWSL Shield Winners, the Kansas City Current, head to Los Angeles to play Angel City, and for the home team, it’s must win. ACFC currently sit in 11th in the standings and with five points off from the final playoff spot, every point is crucial for their postseason hopes in these next few games. Recently acquired midfielder Hina Sugita, with her NWSL Championship experience, will be vital in that endeavor but they’re up against a dominant KC Current, who have only allowed 11 goals this season.
