In a tense, chaotic, and stressful game, Brazil and Colombia went head-to-head for the Copa América Femenina title that ended in penalty kicks, but to say Brazil won another championship doesn’t do what happened Saturday justice.

There were penalty kicks, GOAT performances, an own goal, yellow cards, and so. many. goals.

It was a physical and competitive game throughout. Brazil struggled out of the gate, but showed signs of life at the end of the first half when Orlando Pride’s Angelina notched an equalizer in stoppage time. Things spiraled again in the second half with a defensive miscommunication that led to a Brazil own goal, giving Colombia the lead.

Brazil’s Amanda Gutierres scored in the 80th minute, tying the game again, 2-2. When Colombia scored the go-ahead goal just minutes later, the game seemed all but done.

But then came Marta.

Though she started the game on the bench, Marta subbed into the game in the 82nd minute, and as always, where there is a Brazil victory, Marta is part of the action. In fact, Brazil has never lost a Copa game with Marta playing, and she walked away with the Copa América Femenina Best Player honors.

More than 20 years after making her Copa debut, Marta proved, yet again, why she is the GOAT. In the last minute of stoppage time, with Colombia up by a goal, she launched a clean shot from outside the box into the upper right corner of the net to keep Brazil’s hopes alive.

When extra time kicked off, it was Marta and another NWSL star who traded goals. First, Angelina chipped a ball into the box where Marta got her right foot on the ball, knocking it into the bottom right corner of the goal for Brazil’s first lead of the game.

Just 10 minutes later, the Spirit’s Leicy Santos scored the equalizer for Colombia, bringing the score to an incredible 4-4. On a free kick just outside the box, Santos launched a perfectly placed ball into the upper left corner, out of the reach of Current’s keeper Lorena.

As extra time turned into penalty kicks, it would be Lorena who stepped up big time for her country. Colombia’s Jorelyn Carabalí needed to convert a PK to keep the game alive in the seventh round of penalties. Her shot went to the lower left, but so did Lorena.

The win makes it a record ninth Copa América Femenina title for Brazil, having won all but one Conmebol championship. Marta, who now has 120 international goals – the most of any other South American player – was part of four of those titles, starting when she was just 17. It was her first senior tournament, and she opened up scoring for Brazil.

A poetic start and a full circle moment for the greatest to ever do it.
