What a week in the NWSL. With the midweek matches serving as the appetizer, the weekend’s main course didn’t disappoint.

Boston Legacy earns their first win in club history.

Sofia Cantore scored the fastest brace from kickoff in NWSL history, getting on the board twice in five minutes and 27 seconds.

Barbra Banda reclaims sole possession of the Golden Boot race after scoring two braces of her own.

Olivia Moultrie became the second player in NWSL history to score a goal and earn an assist in her 100th regular season appearance. The only other player to do so is Christine Sinclair.

Friday night’s lone matchup was a scoreless stalemate in Houston. Both teams were coming off of disappointing losses, and each added a point to their tally. Houston’s Danielle Colaprico made her 220th regular season appearance, tying her for second all-time with Seattle’s Jess Fishlock. The retired Lauren Barnes leads with 252.

Saturday’s action started with a scorcher in Orlando with the Washington Spirit taking home their fourth straight win. Sofia Cantore made NWSL history with the fastest brace from kickoff on record. It took her just five minutes and 27 seconds to give her team the lead, and Trinity Rodman earned the assist on both. The Golden Boot race leader, Barbra Banda, added two goals to her tally later in the first half, her second brace in as many games. Unfortunately for the Pride, Banda’s heroics weren’t enough. Leicy Santos teed up Claudia Martinez for the second goal of her NWSL career, and Trinity Rodman added an insurance goal for the Spirit. Goalkeeper Sandy MacIver faced her first penalty kick – and she saved it.

Spirit fans: Say, “Thank you, José!”

The North Carolina Courage fought hard for a comeback draw against Boston earlier in the week, but couldn’t pull it off twice. The Kansas City Current scored two first half goals and it was ultimately enough to secure a much-needed win. Croix Bethune scored her second goal of the season just eight minutes in, and Michelle Cooper scored her second on the year thanks to an assist from Bethune. The Courage, of course, made a good effort, and despite an 85th minute Manaka Matsukubo goal, the Current took their first three points on the road.

The Utah Royals continue their hot streak, winning against Angel City for the first time. Cloé Lacasse scored her third goal of the year thanks to an assist from Paige Cronin. The Royals are now undefeated in their last five, which includes four straight wins and three consecutive clean sheets. After a hot start for Angel City FC, they have now dropped three straight, and they’ll be without Brazilian playmaker Maiara Niehues in their next match due to a red card suspension.

The final score doesn’t show just how close the Chicago Stars were to having a different fate. The Chicago attack was relentless, but just couldn’t get the ball in the back of the net. The first place Thorns, however, were more precise with their strikes. Olivia Moultrie got the Thorns on the board in her 100th regular season match. When Reilyn Turner added an insurance goal in the second half, Moultrie became just the second player in NWSL history to notch a goal and assist in the century milestone match (Christine Sinclair). The Chicago Stars had opportunities to make something happen offensively, but just couldn’t seal the deal.

The Boston Legacy won their first match in club history in epic comeback fashion against their fellow 2026 expansion team. It was the same story in both halves. The Summit took the lead early in the half, and then the Legacy would equalize in the waning moments. First it was Yazmeen Ryan who opened up scoring for the Summit, her first since joining the club. After two assists in Boston’s midweek match, Nichelle Prince finally found the back of the net herself to level the game, also her first for her new club. The Summit again took the lead early in the second half with Tash Flint’s third of the season. She’s now scored in back-to-back games. As the final minutes of regular time ticked down, Aïssata Traoré came in off the bench to score her second goal of the season to equalize again. It was Bianca St-Georges who played hero for Boston, scoring a stoppage-time game-winner for her first with the club. It was a much-needed win for the Legacy, who got to celebrate the moment in front of a home crowd.

Gotham FC cruised their way to their third straight shutout win, this time against Racing Louisville. It was Jaedyn Shaw who would be the difference maker for Gotham. Rookie Jordynn Dudley earned the assist for her third straight game with a goal contribution. During Gotham's midweek match, she scored her first NWSL goal – and Shaw earned the assist. They're proving to be a troublesome duo for opposing defenses, though Racing Louisville managed to hold Gotham to just the one goal. Racing had opportunities to get on the board, but couldn’t follow through, and they’ve now been shutout two games in a row.

The final game of the week started with the same throughline – early goals. Bay FC’s Rachael Kundananji scored her first goal of the year just five minutes into the match. After going without a goal in their previous two matches, getting on the scoresheet early made the difference.

It was a deja vu moment for Jordan Silkowitz, who saved a first-half penalty kick attempt from Kenza Dali in the first half. It’s the second time she’s stopped a San Diego Wave penalty attempt. The San Diego Wave have dropped back-to-back games and have been shut out in their last two, and they will be without head coach Jonas Eidevall, who will be serving a red card suspension, on their trip to Los Angeles next week. Both SoCal teams will be fighting for that win – which should make for some great futbol.
