The Washington Spirit defeated the Kansas City Current in a 4-0 dominant display in Matchweek 5, and the South American contingency of the Spirit led the charge.

Leicy Santos scored her first career brace, snagging her second and third goals of 2026, the most she’s scored in a single NWSL season. It was the first Colombian brace in NWSL history. Teenager Claudia Martínez made history as the first Paraguayan to score in the NWSL.

With the likes of Marta and Debinha, the Brazilians in the NWSL have helped craft the DNA of the league, and with 199 goals scored by players from Brazil, they are approaching yet another milestone in the league. Kansas City Current’s Debinha scored her 80th career goal earlier this season, and she is one win shy of hitting 100 regular season wins throughout her NWSL career.

For the No. 1 San Diego Wave, Dudinha forced an own goal to help her club to their record fifth-straight win. She already has two goals and three assists on the year.

From São Diego to the Spirit scorefest, the South American players in the NWSL are having a moment. There are 26 South American players (so far!) in 2026, accounting for 10 goals and seven assists through Matchweek 5.

Here’s a breakdown of every South American player in the NWSL this season.

Aldana Cometti – Bay FC

Kaká – Boston Legacy FC

Amanda Gutierres – Boston Legacy FC

Laís Araujo – Boston Legacy FC

Bruninha – Gotham FC

Lorena – Kansas City Current

Debinha – Kansas City Current

Ary Borges – Angel City FC

Maiara Niehues – Angel City FC Brazil

Rafaelle – Orlando Pride

Angelina – Orlando Pride

Luana – Orlando Pride

Marta – Orlando Pride

Ludmila – San Diego Wave FC

Gabi Portilho – San Diego Wave FC

Dudinha – San Diego Wave FC

Tamara Bolt – Washington Spirit

Joralyn Carabalí – Boston Legacy FC

Ivonne Chacón – Chicago Stars FC

Valerin Loboa – Portland Thorns FC

Luisa Agudelo – San Diego Wave FC

Daniela Arias – San Diego Wave FC

Leicy Santos – Washington Spirit

Claudia Martínez – Washington Spirit

Barbara Olivieri – Boston Legacy FC

Deyna Castellanos – Portland Thorns
