San Diego’s Trinity Armstrong is just one of the rookies making a splash in the NWSL this year. With a goal and two assists, Armstrong has played every minute for the Wave since Week 4.

In a video series, Rookies presented by Ally, Armstrong talked about her journey to the NWSL, overcoming a bout of anemia, and her vision for her financial future.

Here are just some of the things she shared.

SOCCER JOURNEY

Armstrong picked up soccer at just three years old, but as an active kid, she loved playing all kinds of sports. When she got a bit older, Armstrong realized soccer was it.

“It was the one I gravitated to the most, and I was able to express myself the way I wanted to,” she said.

After a year of high school in her native Texas, Armstrong made the difficult decision to attend IMG Academy in Florida, leaving behind her family and friends.

“It was very scary, but ultimately, it ended up being the best decision for me,” Armstrong said.

Armstrong ended up staying at IMG for a year, combining her junior and senior high school years to attend the University of North Carolina an entire year early. That decision paid off in a big way when the Tarheels won the 2024 NCAA Division I Championship, the program’s 23rd national title and first since 2012.

“It was definitely the best decision I ever made … It was the best year in college I could ever ask for,” she said.

In the middle of her first and only NCAA soccer season, Armstrong was part of the US U17 National Team that won bronze at the 2024 FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup.

“It was really cool to be part of such an amazing group and, of course, to rep the United States,” she said.

Armstrong’s journey to the NWSL was already anything but traditional, and then with the elimination of the NWSL draft, Armstrong was able to choose where she wanted to start her professional career.

“I came to the decision that San Diego was going to be my new home,” Armstrong said. “I’m so grateful that I’m here … It’s been so amazing.”

It only took until Week 6 for Armstrong to get her first NWSL goal, scoring a game winner in stoppage time against Bay FC.

OVERCOMING OBSTACLES

The journey wasn’t always easy for the 17-year old. Just one year into her time at IMG Academy, Armstrong was diagnosed with anemia.

Armstrong didn’t qualify for a blood transfusion, so she was bedridden for 11 weeks.

“I was in one of the worst spots in my life,” she said. “My mental health was low. I didn’t know if I was going to play soccer again. I tried to go back into soccer five weeks in, and so many different complications happened. I almost had to medically retire.”

Armstrong said she learned how to ground herself, a skill that came into play when she tore her meniscus after winning the 2024 CONCACAF Women’s U-17 championship.

“It was definitely a low point, but because I went through my anemia, I was able to battle it and persevere a lot easier,” Armstrong said.

OFF THE FIELD

When Armstrong isn’t playing soccer, she’s probably napping.

“I recently bought a new couch. It's like plush, you just sink into it and I can nap on it all day,” she said.

If she’s not breaking in her new couch, Armstrong can be found with her dog, a Stafford bull terrier, pit bull mix named Mochi.

“He is absolutely adorable,” she gushed. “He’s brought so much joy into my life, and I’m so glad I was able to get him. Shout out to the San Diego Humane Society.”

In a rapid fire Q&A, Armstrong also revealed she loves to crochet, hopes to delve into San Diego culture by learning how to surf, and that she’s never been to a concert.

“It's quite sad actually. I wish I'd gone to one by now,” she said. She included that she’d love to go to a Rihanna, Bruno Mars, or Coldplay concert.

When it comes to rocking No. 3 on the back of her jersey, she said it’s really a kismet combination of reasons.

“I started playing soccer, of course, when I was three years old,” she said. “I’m the third child. Trinity means three, and funny enough, I see 3-3-3 every single day in any way, shape or form. It can be a receipt. I’ve seen it on shirts. I’ve seen it on TikTok. I think it started around when I was 12, and then it hasn’t stopped since.”

MONEY GOALS

Though Armstrong is just 17 years old, she is already thinking about her financial future. Earning a professional athlete’s salary for the first time, it could be easy to splurge, but Armstrong is steadfast in her money goals.

With the hope of retiring by 50, Armstrong plans to put her money into investments and savings, while also keeping a healthy diet of credit cards, making sure to never put more on an account than she can afford.

In the short term though, Armstrong has her eyes (and savings) set on a trip to Hawaii.

“That’s where we’re going this offseason,” she said. “I’d love to go to Hawaii. It looks like an amazing place to go.”

Armstrong’s financial goals require the same kind of discipline it takes to be a professional athlete, but there is one thing she’s never going to skimp on – food.

“I’m a big foodie. I love food, I love snacking – probably a bit too much,” she said. “Thankfully, I’m an athlete … Big or small, I will eat food and pay for it.”

You can watch the entire video on YouTube.
