You never know what you’re going to get when you tune into an NWSL match. That’s not hyperbole, but it was how Week 2 of the season went down. From a Cascadia Rivalry game for the ages to the last place club in 2025 toppling the reigning Shield winners, this weekend’s matches were NWSL chaos in action.

Week two saw more birthday goals, braces, and more “for the first time” moments to keep the party rolling into the first weeknight matches of the season. With a full slate on Wednesday night, it’s a quick turnaround from Week 2, so let’s get into what you might have missed.

Both the Pride and Summit walked away from the first match of the weekend with a point thanks to goals in back-to-back games from Orlando’s Barbra Banda and Denver’s Melissa Kössler. It was yet another NWSL birthday goal, with Banda earning her second of the season on her 26th birthday. Of course, her teammates had her celebrate appropriately by blowing out the candles of imaginary cake. In the first draw in Summit history Denver’s keeper Abby Smith earned her 250th career save. That wasn’t the only record of the day, as Yazmeen Ryan made her debut for the Denver Summit for her 100th career NWSL appearance.

In a 2025 playoff rematch, Racing Louisville and Washington Spirit split points. Kayla Fischer and Emma Sears were involved in both goals for Racing. Fischer scored the first goal of the game with an assist from Sears, and then less than 15 minutes later, Fischer returned the favor to Sears to give Racing a 2-0 lead.

But, as they do, the Spirit came roaring back in the second half thanks to a beautiful rocket from Sofia Cantore, and Leicy Santos equalized the game for the Spirit in the 74th minute. Rosemonde Kouassi assisted both Washington goals. To sweeten the comeback draw, Washington’s Andi Sullivan returned to the pitch for the first time since October 2024 after time on SEI and maternity leave.

Week 2’s matchup between the Portland Thorns and Seattle Reign may go down as one of the most electric games of the Cascadia Rivalry – and that’s saying something. In the first rivalry game, presented by Ally, the Thorns earned a decisive win – despite playing with just nine players. Just nine minutes into the match, Cassandra Bogere earned two yellow cards in quick succession for a red card suspension. With one player down, Pietra Tordin got the Thorns on the board first, thanks to an assist from Olivia Moultrie. Less than 10 minutes later, it was Tordin’s turn to pay it forward, assisting Reilyn Turner’s first of the season to give Portland the 2-0 lead.

The Thorns went down to nine players when Reyna Reyes earned a red card in the 57th minute. Despite being down two players, the Thorns defense was able to hold the Reign at bay in front of a record crowd for a home opener in Portland. Thorns keeper Morgan Messner recorded her second clean sheet to start the season, and to sweeten the deal Sophia Wilson also made her regular season debut at Providence Park.

Have yourself a day, Kiki Van Zanten. The Dash forward scored her first career brace, thanks to assists from Linda Ullmark and rookie Kate Rader. Just minutes later, Rader took matters into her own hands and extended the Dash’s lead to three goals. Despite an impressive on a penalty kick attempt that was saved by Legacy keeper Casey Murphy, Boston couldn’t slow down Houston’s offense. The Dash joined the attendance record party, hosting the largest home opener in club history with 10,259 in attendance.

In the first draw of the season for both teams, it was a true battle of the keepers. With Ann-Katrin Berger for Gotham and Kailen Sheridan for the Courage, it was a showcase for the veteran keepers who both kept a clean sheet. Sheridan became just the fourth keeper to play 15,000 minutes in NWSL history.

In the home opener for Gotham, in front of a record crowd, captain Tierna Davidson made her return to the pitch for the first time since getting injured early in the 2025 season. Gotham also received their 2025 NWSL Championship rings after the game.

Sveindís Jónsdóttir led the way for Angel City, scoring two goals and assisting the club’s third goal. Gisele Thompson scored Angel City’s second goal in the 33’. It’s the second NWSL goal of her career. Before earning a red card, Taylor Huff scored Bay’s lone goal. She was assisted by Italian native Cristiana Girelli, who made her NWSL debut.

The surprise of the weekend was an upset in the Windy City – emphasis on windy. The Chicago Stars, who finished the 2025 season in last place and lost 4-0 in their 2026 season opener, defeated the 2025 Shield winners on the shores of Lake Michigan. Rookie Tessa Dellarose scored her first NWSL goal in her first start for the Stars. Jordyn Huitema scored her first goal as a member of the Stars with a header to give Chicago the 2-0 lead, and Ryan Gareis earned the assist. Chicago’s Alyssa Naeher became the second goalkeeper in NWSL history (and the weekend) to play 15,000 minutes for a single club. Haley Hopkins got on the board, assisted by Izzy Rodriguez, in the 57’, but the Current failed to mount a comeback.

The Wave earned their first win of the year thanks to goals from Dudhina and Lia Godfrey. Dudhina scored the first goal of the game to give the Wave the early lead. An impressive performance from Utah keeper Mia Justus kept the Royals in the game long enough for Lara Prašnikar to equalize the game in the 67th minute. She became the first Slovenian player to score a goal in the NWSL.

Then Utah’s luck started to turn. Tatumn Mallazo earned a red card with 10 minutes left in the game, and San Diego jumped at the chance to make the Wave. Rookie Godfrey scored her first NWSL goal, securing the win for the Wave.
