Orlando Pride’s defense set a new league record for consecutive minutes (554 minutes) without conceding a goal, surpassing the previous record of 547 minutes set by North Carolina in 2021.

The Orlando Pride extended their record to 23 regular-season games unbeaten. The Pride now have 54 points, just 3 short of the single-season record (57) set by North Carolina in 2018.

Carson Pickett has made a habit of creating scoring opportunities for others but in Week 21, the Florida native notched her first-ever goal for Orlando Pride.

Asisat Oshoala recorded her second penalty kick goal of the season for Bay FC, ensuring a win for her team. Goalkeeper Katelyn Rowland also put in a standout performance, earning her 24th career regular-season shutout, tying her for 8th best all-time in the league.

Melanie Barcenas became the youngest goalscorer in San Diego Wave FC history (and fourth-youngest in league history) when she scored her first professional goal. She’s also the 53rd player to score her first NWSL goal this regular season.

Denise O’Sullivan scored the 400th regular season goal of 2024 and delivered the game-winner for the North Carolina Courage. 2023 NWSL MVP Kerolin also made a strong return, marking her first goal since recovering from her fall 2023 ACL injury.

Ashley Hatch scored her 51st career regular-season goal in Washington’s 2-1 win over Angel City. With this goal, she is now tied with the retired Megan Rapinoe for 6th on the all-time NWSL regular-season scoring list, solidifying her place among the league’s top scorers.

Temwa Chawinga continues to light up the league, scoring her league-leading 17th goal of the season. She’s now just one goal away from matching the NWSL single-season record of 18 set by Sam Kerr in 2019 with the Chicago Red Stars.

Last week, one of the game’s greatest legends, Christine Sinclair, announced she was retiring at the end of the season. A special surfboard commemorating her iconic number 12 was presented to Sinclair by the Wave in recognition of her immeasurable impact on the sport.
