NEW YORK (June 5, 2023) -

The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of May by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

NEW YORK (June 5, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Mastercard, for the month of May by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

Seven teams are represented in the league’s Top 11, including four selections from NJ/NY Gotham FC, two from OL Reign, and one each from the Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC and the Washington Spirit. In addition, four players earned their second straight Best XI of the Month honors, including defenders Naomi Girma and Sam Staab, midfielder Crystal Dunn and forward Lynn Williams.

GK – Abby Smith (NJNY): Smith was instrumental in helping Gotham FC to an undefeated record and a spot atop the league standings in May, stopping nine shots and earning one clean sheet in three matches. Smith currently boasts a .89 goals against average in regular season play, a league best among goalkeepers who have seen game action this season.

D – Bruninha (NJNY): In her first season with Gotham FC, Brazilian international Bruninha tallied her first career NWSL goals in back-to-back regular season matches this month, with her first goal coming in the club’s 4-1 win over OL Reign. The defender added a second goal to her ledger with the lone Gotham FC goal in a 1-1 draw against Washington.

D – Naomi Girma (SD): Girma was solid as ever through five competitions on the San Diego backline during the month. The San Jose, California native appeared in every minute of play, maintaining an 86 percent passing accuracy, completing 118 passes in San Diego’s defensive half and recovering 37 possessions.

D – Kylie Strom (ORL): Now in her third season with the Pride, the defender scored her first career game-winner as the club took down Washington, the last remaining undefeated club at the time, by a 2-1 margin on May 20.

D – Sam Staab (WAS): Appearing in every minute of play throughout the month and scoring her first goals of the year, Staab enjoyed success at both ends of the field this month. The defender’s first tally came in the club’s 4-2 UKG NWSL Challenge Cup win over Orlando on May 10 while the second came in a 2-1 loss against the Pride on May 20.

M – Savannah DeMelo (LOU): DeMelo’s offensive prowess was on full display across regular season and Challenge Cup matches in May. The midfielder tallied three goals and two assists in five matches to lead the scoring effort for her club.

M – Crystal Dunn (POR): Solidly in the running for the 2023 NWSL Golden Boot, Dunn was electric throughout May, tallying three goals and an assist to lead the Thorns’ scoring effort for the month. Most notably, the midfielder tallied a brace in the club’s gritty 3-3 road draw against her former club in the North Carolina Courage.

M – Jenna Nighswonger (NJNY): Earning her first Best XI of the Month selection, Nighswonger scored her first career NWSL goal in Gotham FC’s May 7 win over the Chicago Red Stars. The rookie added to her scoring ledger the following game with the opening goal in the club’s 4-1 win against OL Reign.

F – Veronica Latsko (RGN): Latsko enjoyed a three-goal month in May, scoring the game-opening goal in the club’s 2-0 win against the Houston Dash on May 6. The Venetia, Pennsylvania native also earned her first career brace with a pair of goals in the Reign’s 4-1 victory against Angel City.

F – Megan Rapinoe (RGN): Rapinoe dished out four assists during the month of May, including three in OL Reign’s 4-1 win over Angel City. The game, her first-ever three-assist performance, solidified her place as OL Reign’s all-time assist leader with 25.

F – Lynn Williams (NJNY): Earning her second straight monthly Best XI honor, Williams continued her scoring ways in May, tallying three goals across all competitions throughout the month, including two game-winners, one in Gotham FC’s 2-1 win against Chicago on May 7 and another in the club’s 4-1 rout of OL Reign on May 21.

Mastercard and the NWSL launched the Best XI of the Month awards platform with the First Team and Second Team honors for the 22 top players of the league after the 2021 season. Mastercard believes that our world is full of brilliant possibilities and unlocking the potential in every person across all parts of their life is what Priceless is all about. The development of the Best XI is a further commitment from the company to connect NWSL fans to the league and the athletes they love.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month is selected each month of the regular season by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league on a consistent basis, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.
