Matchweek 15 is here, and after three Wednesday night matches, we have more weekend fun to look forward to. Several clubs have a chance to avenge earlier defeats, while two of the league's biggest returning stars – Lindsey Heaps and Sam Kerr – have had another full week to settle in with their clubs. With playoff positioning beginning to take shape, there's plenty to keep an eye on.

Here's what to watch for in Matchweek 15.​

SCHEDULE

North Carolina Courage vs. Orlando Pride - Friday, July 31 | 8:00 PM ET (Prime Video)

Racing Louisville vs. Chicago Stars - Saturday, August 1 | 4:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Kansas City Current vs. Angel City FC - Saturday, August 1 | 6:30 PM ET (ION)

Houston Dash vs. Gotham FC - Saturday, August 1 | 8:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Bay FC vs. Seattle Reign - Saturday, August 1 | 8:45 PM ET (ION)

Washington Spirit vs. San Diego Wave - Sunday, August 2 | 4:00 PM ET (CBS Sports)

Utah Royals vs. Portland Thorns FC - Sunday, August 2 | 7:00 PM ET (NWSL+)

Denver Summit vs. Boston Legacy - Sunday, August 2 | 9:00 PM ET (ESPN, ESPN app)

POSSIBLE MOVEMENT

If Gotham beats Houston and Washington loses to San Diego, Gotham will retake first place. If in this scenario Washington ties San Diego instead, they will remain in first place due to goal differential.

If North Carolina beats Orlando and Angel City loses to Kansas City, North Carolina Courage will knock Angel City out of playoff territory.

With a win over Bay FC, Seattle Reign could enter the playoff zone.

Why it matters: Another week of intense competition for the Shield among the top six teams. With an electric win over Denver last week, Washington sits comfortably on top for now. However, Gotham and Utah are right behind, and if Washington loses, it’s anybody’s chance to take over first place. The race for playoff spots is also getting tighter with Angel City, North Carolina Courage, and Seattle Reign all within striking distance of that last slot.

The Washington Spirit are back home at Rowdy Audi after an impressive midweek trip to Utah. They take on the San Diego Wave, who beat the Spirit in May and snapped their impressive five-game win streak. A late-game stunner from Kimmi Ascanio made the difference that night. With the Spirit winning five out of their last six games, will the Wave play spoiler once again?

The two newest expansion teams, the Denver Summit and the Boston Legacy, will face off in their second-ever meeting. Their inaugural meeting was a 3-2 thriller with the Legacy coming out on top for their first-ever win.

The North Carolina Courage and the Orlando Pride both have a lot to play for on Friday. If North Carolina beats Orlando, they have a chance to get back above the playoff line. If Orlando wins, they would get another 3 points of security to stay in the playoff race.

The Utah Royals and Portland Thorns will be playing each other for the second time this season. The last time was a dramatic 2-2 tie with Sophia Wilson tying the game in the first minute of extra time with a penalty. Expect plenty of drama from these two teams only separated by two points in the standings.
