The NWSL may be on break for the month, but is there ever really a break in the world of football?

It’s time again for the UEFA Women’s Euro tournament. It’s been three years since England hoisted the trophy at Wembley Stadium, winning the championship on home soil. That championship squad included Gotham FC's Jess Carter, who was with Chelsea at the time, and former Houston Dash defender Rachel Daly.

This week, the 14th UEFA Women’s Euro 2025 tournament begins in Switzerland, and there will be plenty of chances to see some of your NWSL favorites compete on the international level. All but five countries competing have at least one NWSL player on its roster.

With 18 players competing for their home countries, the NWSL fingerprints are all over Euro 2025.

The Women’s Euro starts with a group stage, and the top two countries in each group will advance to the quarter-finals. After the quarter-finals, the tournament enters the knockout stage.

Below is a breakdown of each NWSL by country and group, as well as the group stage schedule. Games will be available to watch in the U.S. on Fox Sports.

Ana-Maria Crnogorčević – Seattle Reign

No NWSL players

Sveindís Jónsdóttir – Angel City FC

Natalia Kuikka – Chicago Stars

Esther González – Gotham FC

No NWSL players

No NWSL players

Sofia Cantore – Washington Spirit

Kathrin Hendrich – Chicago Stars

Ann-Katrin Berger – Gotham FC

Josefine Hasbo – Gotham FC

Isabella Obaze – Portland Thorns

Janni Thomsen – Utah Royals

No NWSL players

Hanna Lundkvist – San Diego Wave

Delphine Cascarino – San Diego Wave

Jess Carter – Gotham FC

Anna Moorhouse – Orlando Pride

Esme Morgan – Washington Spirit

Jess Fishlock – Seattle Reign

Angharad James-Turner – Seattle Reign

Lily Woodham – Seattle Reign

No NWSL players

Iceland vs. Finland, 12 p.m. ET

Switzerland vs. Norway, 3 p.m. ET

Belgium vs. Italy, 12 p.m. ET

Spain vs. Portugal, 3 p.m. ET

Denmark vs. Sweden, 12 p.m. ET

Germany vs. Poland, 3 p.m. ET

Wales vs. Netherlands, 12 p.m. ET

Switzerland vs. Iceland, 3 p.m. ET

Norway vs. Finland, 12 p.m. ET

Switzerland vs. Iceland, 3 p.m. ET

Spain vs. Belgium, 12 p.m. ET

Portugal vs. Italy, 3 p.m. ET

Germany vs. Denmark, 12 p.m. ET

Poland vs. Sweden, 3 p.m. ET

England vs. Netherlands, 12 p.m. ET

France vs. Wales, 3 p.m. ET

Finland vs. Switzerland, 3 p.m. ET

Norway vs. Iceland 3 p.m. ET

Portugal vs. Belgium, 3 p.m. ET

Italy vs. Spain, 3 p.m. ET

Poland vs. Denmark, 3 p.m. ET

Sweden vs. Germany, 3 p.m. ET

England vs. Wales, 3 p.m. ET

Netherlands vs. France, 3 p.m. ET
