The NWSL returns from international break as Week 4 of the 2025 season kicks off Friday night under the lights in Utah, live on Prime Video. From unbeaten streaks to goalkeeper milestones and goal scorers on the verge of breaking records, this weekend’s slate is packed with early-season storylines. With young NWSL players like Kennedy Fuller, Chiamaka Okwuchukwu, and Olivia Moultrie already making major impacts, the league’s next generation is proving it’s ready to shine. Here’s what to watch for in every matchup this weekend.

How do I watch live games from the 2025 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to U.S. fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network are available to U.S. fans here.

For games airing on CBS, U.S. fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, U.S. fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, U.S. fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the U.S. can watch for free on NWSL+

For more information on how to watch NWSL matches outside of the U.S., read more here.

How to watch: Prime Video

The Thorns enter the weekend on the heels of a standout performance from Mackenzie Arnold, who has now saved the first two on-target penalties faced in her NWSL career—a feat only matched by AD Franch. Portland’s young core has played more minutes this season than any other team, with players 25 and under totaling 1,902 minutes. Meanwhile, Utah will look to build on individual momentum, with the team earning two wins over Portland in their last two match ups including a Summer Cup 3-1 victory. However, the Royals' and forward Ally Sentnor’s tendency to take a high volume of long-range shots could be tested against a stingy Thorns defense so look to see Sentnor serving up more through balls to a darting Mina Tanaka to get into the box and cause some chaos.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+

Washington is unbeaten in its last eight matches against Louisville, a streak that includes four wins and four draws. The Spirit are also looking to win their first two road games of a season for just the second time in club history. Ashley Hatch remains a major factor in this matchup, having scored seven times in nine regular-season games against Racing. On the other side, Emma Sears' match-winner against Chicago in Week 3 — her second goal of the season — makes her a player to be wary of. The Spirit defense will have their hands full with Sears, a frequent Racing target on set pieces who is also mobile in the box and dangerous from a distance.

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+, Golazo

Houston and Angel City have played six times since LA entered the league in 2022, with four matches ending in draws and both clubs claiming a narrow away win — making this matchup one to watch. Kennedy Fuller continues to make an early impact for Angel City, recording a goal contribution in each of her first three NWSL appearances of the season but the Dash will lean on their own rising talent, as Natalie Jacobs’ perfect duel record on March 28 was a historic moment for the club and rookie Maggie Graham scored in her first two matches and recorded a start in her third. Houston is unbeaten in its last two matches, and another result would mark its longest unbeaten streak since mid-2023 while Angel City is off to its best-ever start to a season with two draws and a win.

How to watch: ION

Orlando is off to a historic start, winning each of its first three matches and becoming just the second team in NWSL history to score 10+ goals through three games. Marta’s game-winner against San Diego marked her 10th consecutive converted penalty in league play. Seattle will look to rebound at home after suffering a narrow defeat in Week 3 in Southern California. Orlando won both encounters with Seattle last season despite conceding multiple goals in each, so if Reign can replicate that effort this weekend and keep Orlando out of goal, they could come away with points.

How to watch: ION

The Current have had the perfect start to the 2025 season and are just the second team in league history to open back-to-back seasons with three wins. A fourth straight victory would put them in rare company, as only three teams have ever started a season 4–0 and all went on to win the Shield and reach the Championship—North Carolina in 2017 and 2018 and Seattle in 2014. Temwa Chawinga enters the match with goals in eight consecutive regular-season games, tying her own record from last season and is one game away from NWSL history. San Diego, meanwhile, has been strong at home with back-to-back three-goal performances, including a standout debut goal from 19-year-old Chiamaka Okwuchukwu, who scored two minutes after coming off the bench.

Gotham FC vs. North Carolina Courage – 4:00 PM ET

How to watch: NWSL+, Paramount+

Gotham FC are home again after hosting the Pride in Week 3 and suffering an unfortunate loss in front of their home crowd, their first in 11 home matches across all competitions. They’ve been stingy defensively this season, facing just 16 shots—the fewest through three games since 2018. North Carolina, meanwhile, is unbeaten on the road so far this season despite entering on a seven-match winless run overall. Goalkeeper Casey Murphy remains a bright spot, tying for third all-time in away clean sheets. Meanwhile, Jaedyn Shaw is still hunting for that first Courage goal after registering six shots in Week 3 on a stellar Mackenzie Arnold, two of which were on frame and three inside the box.

Bay FC vs. Chicago Stars FC – 7:00 PM ET

How to watch: ESPN2, ESPN+

Bay FC is back home and looking to extend its strong form in front of its beloved home fans, having won four of its last six home matches while allowing just three total goals in that stretch. Last time they were home, it was a night to celebrate the Bay Area with two of its natives scoring in their victory against Louisville. Chicago comes into the match trying to halt a seven-game losing streak. Veteran goalkeeper Alyssa Naeher is chasing her 50th regular-season clean sheet and has yet to record one against Bay FC—where former Star Penelope Hocking now calls home. Last season, the teams split the series with each winning in the other’s house.
