NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

REMATCH RESULTS

Week 3 featured two rematches from the 2023 NWSL Playoffs, with San Diego Wave FC and the North Carolina Courage both defeating the clubs that eliminated them last season. The Wave defeated Seattle Reign FC, 1-0, behind midfielder Emily van Egmond’s first regular season goal since 2014, assisted by Alex Morgan, in the 98th minute. Midfielder Brianna Pinto’s first half goal propelled the Courage over NJ/NY Gotham FC, as forward Ashley Sanchez recorded her first assist with the club.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

MARCH MADNESS

Emily van Egmond’s game-winner in San Diego set a record as the latest regular season goal in club history but was just the third-latest goal around the league in Week 3. Portland Thorns FC midfielder Sam Coffey, who led the NWSL in assists last season, forced Racing Louisville FC into a draw with her goal in the 99th minute, the latest regular season goal in club history and the second of her career, as defender Kelli Hubly earned her first career assist. The Houston Dash spoiled Bay FC’s home opener, as midfielder Havana Solaun scored the game-winner 10 minutes into second half stoppage time to give head coach Fran Alonso his first win in the NWSL.

AFRICAN ALLSTARS

Kansas City Current forward Temwa Chawinga, the first NWSL player from Malawi, made history for her country with her first NWSL goal in the 51st minute against Angel City FC. Chawinga also earned her second NWSL assist earlier in the match, setting up midfielder Vanessa DiBernardo in the sixth minute. Bay FC forward Racheal Kundananji made her NWSL debut in front of 18,000 fans at PayPal Park in her club’s sellout home opener, becoming the first Zambian international to play in the NWSL. Kundananji made her presence felt in the 93rd minute, weaving through defenders to tie the match with her first NWSL goal.

BRACING LOUISVILLE/SCORDÓÑEZ

Racing Louisville FC’s Uchenna Kanu tallied the fastest brace in NWSL history on Saturday, scoring twice in the first six minutes. The Nigerian forward struck first in the third minute, recovering a loose ball in the box and firing a shot off the post and into the net. Kanu scored her second goal in the sixth minute, converting a header as rookie Reilyn Turner earned her second career assist. Houston Dash forward Diana Ordóñez recorded the second brace of the weekend, scoring a header in the 66th minute with an assist from forward María Sánchez. She scored her second goal in the 87th minute, capitalizing on a rebound from her own penalty kick. Ordóñez’s first goal tied the match after Bay FC’s Deyna Castellanos scored her first NWSL goal in the 19th minute, while her second goal gave the Dash a late lead.

TRIPLE DOUBLE

Three Kansas City players recorded both a goal and an assist this week, including DiBernardo, who also accomplished the feat in Week 1. DiBernardo scored her second goal of the season in the sixth minute, assisted by Chawinga, before assisting a header by forward Alexa Spaanstra in the 48th minute. Brazilian forward Bia Zaneratto assisted Temwa Chawinga’s goal in the 51st minute before scoring one of her own in the 92nd minute.

ROOKIES ROLLING

Angel City’s rookie defender Madison Curry scored her first professional goal in the 78th minute, recovering a blocked shot inside the box. Utah Royals FC forward Ally Sentnor scored her second career goal in the 71st minute against the Washington Spirit.

SWANSON SCORES

Chicago Red Stars forward Mallory Swanson forced the Orlando Pride into a draw with an equalizer goal in the 64th minute, as midfielder Jenna Bike earned her first career assist. The USWNT missed most of last season while recovering from an injury and had not scored in the NWSL since March 25, 2023.

RODMAN’S RECORD

Washington Spirit forward Trinity Rodman recorded her club-record 12th career assist on Sunday, setting up teammate Ouleymata Sarr for her first goal of the season.

WEEK 3 MATCH RESULTS

Friday, March 29 Orlando Pride vs. Chicago Red Stars | 1 – 1 | Match Recap San Diego Wave FC vs. Seattle Reign FC | 1 – 0 | Match Recap

Saturday, March 30

Kansas City Current vs. Angel City FC | 4 – 2 | Match Recap North Carolina Courage vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC | 1 – 0 | Match Recap Portland Thorns FC vs. Racing Louisville FC | 2 – 2 | Match Recap Bay FC vs. Houston Dash | 2 – 3 | Match Recap

Sunday, March 31

Washington Spirit vs. Utah Royals FC | 2 – 1 | Match Recap
