NEW YORK (May 2, 2025) - The National Women’s Soccer League announced today the 11 players named to the Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, for the month of April by the NWSL Media Association and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent.

GK – Aubrey Kingsbury (WAS): In 270 minutes of action in goal, Kingsbury made a month-leading 13 saves to secure two clean sheets in April.

D – Lilly Reale (GFC): A rookie out of UCLA, Reale scored her first professional goal in a 3-1 win over North Carolina on April 13.

D – Izzy Rodriguez (KC): Rodriguez notched an assist in a pair of Current wins over Houston and San Diego.

D – Emily Sonnett (GFC): Sonnett achieved a 93 percent passing accuracy along with four interceptions throughout April.

D – Ryan Williams (NC): A mainstay on the North Carolina backline, Williams scored her first professional goal in a dramatic 3-2 victory over the top-ranked Current on April 26.

M – Kenza Dali (SD): Dali scored her first NWSL goal in a 4-1 win over Racing Louisville FC on April 19.

M – Debinha (KC): Debinha notched her third goal of the season to earn her second-straight nomination to the Best XI.

M – Lo’eau LaBonta (KC): LaBonta tallied two goals in 270 minutes of action for the top-ranked Kansas City Current.

F – Barbra Banda (ORL): Banda recorded 11 shots across three matches, leading to a pair of goals as the Pride continued their quest for a second-straight Shield-winning campaign.

F – Delphine Cascarino (SD): Tied for the league’s assist lead, Cascarino added another assist and two goals to her scoring account in April.

F – Esther González (GFC): The April Player of the Month, González tallied a whopping seven goals in four matches to take control of the NWSL Golden Boot race.

As the presenting sponsor of the NWSL Best XI, Amazon Prime is bringing fans closer to the players they love by placing the spotlight on the excellence of the athletes selected for this honor. Prime encourages members to explore their passions and interests through the entertainment they watch, the music they listen to, and the things they like to buy. You could say: Whatever you’re into, It’s on Prime. Prime Video’s NWSL coverage continues every Friday night throughout the regular season.

The NWSL Best XI of the Month, presented by Amazon Prime, is selected by the NWSL Media Association, a collection of writers that cover the league consistently, and the NWSL’s on-air broadcast talent. Awards for the month of April are based on performances during NWSL regular season matches.
