NEW YORK (September 6, 2024) – On the heels of a successful Olympic tournament that saw more than 50 NWSL stars compete on the world stage and the announcement of a historic new collective bargaining agreement prioritizing player welfare, agency and development, the National Women’s Soccer League today announced two strategic hires to the front office’s Sporting function, including Sarah Gregorius as Senior Director, Sporting, and Karla Thompson as Director of Youth Development.

Reporting to Chief Sporting Director Tatjana Haenni, the pair will play pivotal roles in enhancing the league’s competitive framework and elevating sporting standards across key areas including athlete performance and wellbeing, youth development and player pathways and club operations.

“The key to our league’s success is an exciting and quality product on the field. To maintain a high degree of on-field excellence, the league must put in place all practical mechanisms to attract, develop and retain the top talent from around the world,” said Haenni. "This means investing holistically in the overall athlete experience, strengthening player pathways and supporting athletes at every key stage of development. Sarah and Karla bring a wealth of experience in these areas that I’m confident will be instrumental in creating a competitive environment that not only draws the best players but also allows them to thrive and grow within the NWSL."

As Senior Director, Sporting, Gregorius will draw on her extensive experience in policy and player relations within the global women’s football landscape to guide the strategic development of the NWSL’s sporting initiatives. A former player at both the club and international level, Gregorius’ focus at the league will center on advancing player relations and development, optimizing performance standards, and centralizing best practices and minimum standards to ensure consistency of athlete experience across the league’s member clubs.

Gregorius will work closely with clubs and the NWSL Players Association to ensure that the NWSL not only meets but exceeds international benchmarks for player welfare and development, and that all policies and practices align with the league’s long-term vision of becoming the premier destination for top talent in women’s football.

“I am honored and excited to step into this new role with the league and look forward to beginning this next chapter in my career,” said Gregorius. “As a former player myself, I know how critically important it is to create and foster a competitive environment that allows players to thrive. I hugely value the fact that I am joining a league where the wellbeing and development of athletes is clearly paramount, and I look forward to meaningfully contributing to this mission.”

As Director of Youth Development, Thompson's role will involve building stronger connections between the league and elite youth programs around the country, working closely with clubs to standardize and enhance youth training methodologies, and creating opportunities for young players to gain exposure to the professional environment at the appropriate stage in their careers.

With a background in both coaching and youth program management, Thompson brings a deep understanding of the unique challenges and opportunities in youth soccer development. Thompson will leverage her expertise in cultivating young talent to establish a comprehensive framework that supports players from their earliest stages through their transition to the professional level.

"I am thrilled to join the NWSL at such an exciting time for the league and women’s soccer," said Thompson. "Thoughtful and structured development strategies are the foundation of a strong league, and I am committed to creating pathways that not only identify and nurture talent but also provide young players with the appropriate tools they need to succeed at the highest levels. I look forward to contributing to the league’s long-term success by helping shape the future of women’s soccer through our youth initiatives."

About Gregorius Prior to joining the NWSL, Gregorius served as the Director of Global Policy and Strategic Relations for Women’s Football at FIFPRO, the global union for professional football players. In this role, Sarah led the organization’s efforts to shape policy and strategic development in women’s football, focusing on enhancing the professional women’s football industry and improving working conditions for players at both club and national levels.

Before her tenure at FIFPRO, Sarah enjoyed a distinguished playing career, earning 100 caps for the New Zealand Women’s National Team. She represented her country in three FIFA World Cups (2011, 2015, 2019) and two Olympic Games (2012, 2016). Gregorius also played professionally in Germany, England, and Japan, and was part of the Liverpool team that won the FA Women’s Super League in 2013.

While a player, Gregorius worked with the New Zealand Professional Footballers’ Association, where she played a key role in delivering the first gender-equal collective agreement for senior international footballers, covering both men and women under a single framework.

Gregorius holds a Master of Philosophy in Social Anthropology from Massey University and an undergraduate degree in Business Administration from Auckland University of Technology.

About Thompson Before joining the NWSL in her current role, Thompson served as the Executive Director of Performance and Development at San Diego Wave Fútbol Club, a member club of the NWSL, where she played a key role in building the club’s player development pathways, managing performance staff, and developing elite youth academies.

Thompson, who holds a USSF “A” License, spent five years at U.S. Soccer where she developed and facilitated advanced coaching licensure initiatives and collaborated with the Youth National Team program on the creation of the organization’s style of play and player profiles. She also enjoyed stints at various youth associations in Arizona, Kentucky and Maryland where she was responsible for creating and implementing youth development programs that identified and nurtured young talent, helping to increase player participation and create new opportunities for youth in the sport.

A former Division I soccer player and All-American at Colorado College, Thompson joined the military following her college career, serving as a pilot in the United States Air Force. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Sport Management from Ashford University and has been recognized for her contributions to soccer with various coaching awards and accolades.
