NEW YORK (September 3, 2024) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced the 14 players nominated for the 2024 Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, recognizing an NWSL player for outstanding service and character off the pitch. Additionally, the league has released dates for this season’s slate of Appreciation Night matches set to take place in each club’s home market.

Newly reformatted to shine a greater light on players who are making a difference in their communities, the Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, honors the ongoing example of excellence and commitment set by the two-time Olympic gold medalist, FIFA Women’s World Cup champion, National Soccer Hall of Fame inductee, and recipient of the Muhammad Ali Sports Humanitarian ESPY Award.

“I want to congratulate these outstanding players on their nomination for this award,” said Holiday. “These nominees truly embody what it means to be a difference-maker both on and off the field and I look forward to celebrating them this season and seeing the lasting impact they will continue to have on their communities and beyond.”

The complete list of nominees, community partners and dates for each Appreciation Night can be seen below.

For more information on the nominees, community partners and the program, click here.

“This class of Lauren Holiday Impact Award nominees exemplifies the giving spirit of the platform and its namesake,” said Ramon Jones, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer for Nationwide. “As the presenting sponsor, Nationwide is honored to highlight and amplify the meaningful work these players are doing in their communities to improve the lives of others.”

In keeping with the spirit of the award, all clubs will coordinate a service project with their nominee and a local community organization. Each nominee and their community partner will be recognized during their club’s Appreciation Night match where the partner will also receive a $5,000 donation from the league and Nationwide.

Club supporters will have the chance to vote for a player nominee as part of the fan vote in October. The nominee with the most fan votes at the end of the month will receive additional funds to donate to their community partner and an organization of their choice.

At the end of the season, one nominee selected by a voting panel will be named the winner of the 2024 Lauren Holiday Impact Award, presented by Nationwide, and receive $30,000 to designate to a charitable organization of their choice. The winner of the award will be announced the week of the 2024 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel. Additionally, all 14 player nominees will be honored as part of Championship Week celebrations.

About NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Nationwide

Nationwide, a Fortune 100 company based in Columbus, Ohio, is one of the largest and strongest diversified insurance and financial services organizations in the United States. Nationwide is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s. An industry leader in driving customer-focused innovation, Nationwide provides a full range of insurance and financial services products including auto, business, homeowners, farm and life insurance; public and private sector retirement plans, annuities and mutual funds; excess & surplus, specialty and surety; and pet, motorcycle and boat insurance. For more information, visit www.nationwide.com.

Nationwide, Nationwide is on your side and the Nationwide N and Eagle are service marks of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company. © 2024
