On Saturday morning, 2026 expansion team Boston Legacy FC revealed their new crest, ushering in a new era for a city that is familiar with champions.

The city’s iconic sports pedigree includes the Boston Celtics (18-time NBA Champions), the New England Patriots (6 Super Bowl titles), the Boston Red Sox (9-time World Series Champions), the Boston Bruins (6 Stanley Cup wins), and the New England Revolution (2007 U.S. Open Cup winners). Boston also has a Professional Women’s Hockey League (PWHL) team, the Boston Fleet, as well as a women’s professional tackle football team, the Boston Renegades. Now with an NWSL team of their very own, they begin their journey to add another trophy to the city of Boston’s trophy case.

The Crest

Designed by renowned football crest designer Matthew Wolff, the new crest is bordered by a classic shield, with every element reflecting Boston’s identity while also honoring the NWSL’s legacy.

At the heart of the crest is the swan, a symbol long associated with the city thanks to the famous Swan Boats in the Boston Public Garden as well as the beloved same-sex female swan pairings, all affectionately named Romeo and Juliet, who have made the Boston waterways their home over the years. Swans, while elegant, are also fiercely territorial and loyal to their own, echoing the grit and intensity of Boston sports fans.

The swan’s wing features eight feathers, each one paying homage to the original eight NWSL clubs that founded the NWSL in 2013 — including Boston’s own former team, the Boston Breakers. It’s a nod to the league’s roots and a signal that the past still shapes the future. Legacy, if you will.

Those same feathers also echo the design of the Zakim Bridge, a defining piece of the Boston skyline. As a symbol of unity and justice for the community, the bridge’s inclusion on the crest reaffirms the club’s values and commitment to its community.

A New Legacy Begins

Later on in the day, the club celebrated their reveal in the famous Boston Common, giving fans early access to new crest merch, and hosted a watch party for the Gotham FC vs. Kansas City Current game.

The team will first play in 2026 in Gillette Stadium, home of the NFL juggernauts, the New England Patriots, and the New England Revolution. For more information on season tickets: https://bostonlegacyfc.com/products/secure-your-seats
