This is one of those sports stories that make sports fans fall in love with sports all over again.

More than a year and a half after being diagnosed with Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Luana scored her first NWSL goal in the NWSL Playoff quarterfinals, giving Orlando a 2-0 lead over the Seattle Reign with seconds left in the game.

“One year ago, I didn't even know if I would be playing again,” Luana said after the game. “And today, I'm here. Nothing is impossible.”

The storybook moment unraveled in a sweeter-than-fiction way.

With stoppage time ticking away, Marta sprinted 100 yards downfield to the Seattle 18-yard box. The Pride were already up 1-0, but in the playoffs, you fight until the last whistle.

Then Marta drew a foul inside the box.

She picked up the ball, gave it a kiss, and passed it off to her longtime Brazilian teammate.

After 18 months of treatment, recovery, and rehab, Luana returned to the pitch during a CONCACAF game in September. She was slowly increasing her minutes in NWSL competition, logging 38 minutes in the regular season.

That didn’t matter, though. Luana’s teammates knew she had it, and she didn’t disappoint, sailing the ball into the upper left corner past a diving Claudia Dickey.

“Full confidence in her. I literally said out loud, ‘She's gonna make it,’” teammate Haley McCutcheon, who scored the game’s first goal, said afterward.

Before Luana was diagnosed with cancer, she had played just three NWSL games, but it didn’t take long for her to earn the love and respect of the locker room.

“She's such a warrior and just epitomizes this team. We look to her for so much leadership on and off the field,” McCutcheon said. “She's just a joy. It means everything to this team that she got that moment.”

With the insurance of Luana’s converted PK, the Pride cruised by the Seattle Reign to the semifinals next weekend. Despite having a post-summer slump, Luana said the Pride never doubted they would end up back here.

“We have players that never give up. We know that when we're together and we play together, it's hard to beat us,” Luana said.

The Orlando Pride will take on the winner from the quarterfinal between the No. 1 Kansas City Current and No. 8 Gotham FC. You can watch that game on Sunday, Nov. 9 at 12:30 p.m. ET on ABC.

Comeback Queen Simone Charley scores first goal after two Achilles injuries: "I'm back"
