New York, N.Y. — September 17, 2025 – The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) and Canon U.S.A., Inc., today announced a powerful new multi-year content partnership that will combine the power of women’s soccer and cutting-edge imaging technology to amplify visual storytelling around the NWSL and its players. As the Official Imaging Partner of the NWSL, Canon will help elevate the way the league captures, shares, and celebrates the game, its athletes, and its fans.

The partnership will come to life across NWSL platforms through cutting-edge content, in addition to fan activations that will engage and immerse fans within the biggest on and off-field moments the league has to offer. Canon will present an all-new NWSL Content Series, including Goal of the Week highlights and NWSL Style, one of the league’s most popular features showcasing player creativity and personality.

“The NWSL has so much to offer our fans from a sporting, cultural and lifestyle perspective, and Canon is the perfect partner to help us tap into the incredible narratives around our league that resonate with the fanbases and communities who are committed to growing the game,” said NWSL Senior Vice President of Partnerships Matt Soloff.

Canon will provide the NWSL with advanced imaging equipment, including professional-grade cameras, lenses, and printing solutions that will help enhance content production across all league platforms, enabling more in-depth behind-the-scenes coverage, richer in-game photography and dynamic storytelling from across the league’s 14 clubs.

Canon will also collaborate with the league on fan-facing initiatives, including exclusive photo activations at NWSL matches, content collaborations, and a branded “Shot of the Week” social media series celebrating standout moments captured throughout the season.

“Partnering with the NWSL is an incredible opportunity to celebrate the power of sport and storytelling. As a leader in digital imaging solutions, Canon is proud to help capture the passion, precision, and perseverance of these world-class athletes – frame by frame. Together we’re not just documenting history; we’re inspiring the next generation through every shot,” said Hiroto Kato, vice president, business planning and strategy at Canon, U.S.A., Inc.

The partnership between the NWSL and Canon reflects a shared commitment to elevating the incredible stories of the players and clubs that comprise the premier women’s soccer league. Together, the two brands will spotlight the sports stories that resonate, while empowering the creator community around the NWSL — from professional photographers to passionate fans capturing memories from the stands.

For more information, visit NWSLSoccer.com and usa.canon.com.

About the NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston Legacy FC, Chicago Stars FC, Denver Summit FC, Gotham FC, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.

About Canon U.S.A. Inc.

Canon U.S.A., Inc. is a leading provider of consumer, business-to-business, and industrial digital imaging solutions to the United States, Latin America, and the Caribbean markets. With approximately $28.5 billion in global revenue, its parent company, Canon Inc., as of 2024 has ranked in the top-10 for U.S. patents granted for 41 consecutive years. † Canon U.S.A. is dedicated to its Kyosei philosophy of social and environmental responsibility. To learn more about Canon, visit www.usa.canon.com and connect with us on LinkedIn at www.linkedin.com/company/canonusa.
