Your 2026 NWSL kits are here, and they’re perfect.

In the past few weeks, NWSL fans got a taste of the fresh threads with both Boston Legacy FC and Denver Summit FC’s inaugural primary kits. But on Thursday, all 16 teams dropped new kits ahead of the season.

In addition to looking great, each kit tells a story. Here are some of the finer details you may have missed.

The 2026 Flare Kit is a celebration of Angel City’s fifth season, complete with “volemos” on the sleeve. The Spanish word for “we fly” features a “5” instead of an “s” in celebration of the club’s anniversary. From soul to sol, a sunburst pattern shines from the center crest.

Bay’s Poppy Kit is the debut of the poppy color in a primary kit, symbolizing the Bay Area’s beauty and energy and a nod to California’s state flower, the poppy, and the iconic red hue of the Golden Gate Bridge. The black accents represent strength and boldness and the bridge pattern is a nod to connectivity and resilience.

Legacy’s Common Ground secondary kit is an ode to the diverse Boston community. Each shape is the outline of the neighborhoods that make up the city with the brick pattern representing the roads that connect them all together.

The iconic blue, white, and red palette gets a refresh while rooting itself further into the very DNA of the city. With inspiration from the city’s landmarks and the fortitude it’s well known for, the vertical stripes stand strong.

The debut secondary kit, Summit Snow is a tribute to the quiet beauty of Colorado’s winter. The accents reflect the natural wonder of the Rock Mountain State: evergreen trees, crisp blue sky, and red clay. The kit symbolizes the possibility that comes along with a fresh start.

With nods to the city’s architecture, magnolia flowers, the paisley pattern of classic bandanas, geometric textiles, and a shoutout to “Space City,” the Houston Chronicles Kit is a love letter to the city that supports the Dash.

The bold pattern in the signature Kansas City palette represents the rising current that is the team’s persistence and resilience and the river that flows strongly alongside the team’s beloved home stadium.

With the blue and orange of the New York City flag, the angled lines create an outline of one of the most iconic landmarks in the world: the Statue of Liberty. The gold star on the jersey is to indicate Gotham as the reigning NWSL Champions.

The Courage kit is a tribute to the club’s “Place to Be” trifecta: Believe, Belong, and now, Become. The Venus flytrap knows when to wait and when to act; native to North Carolina, it’s a moment of evolution that is woven throughout the kit.

The Unity Kit goes far beyond the game. The Unity Kit is a commemoration of the 10-year remembrance of the Pulse Nightclub tragedy. The ribbons of color come together to form an unbreakable bond. That strength and resilience represents the spirit of Orlando that endures in the face of adversity.

With a balance of grit and grace, Electric Bloom channels the creative energy of Portland. The earthy mood gets to the heart of the Pacific Northwest while atomic pink and voltage yellow roses give a spark.

If you didn’t know that Louisville produced 90 percent of the world’s supplies of disco balls during the disco era, you do now thanks to Racing’s kit. In addition to the mirrorball nod, the bright kit lightheartedly pays homage to the city’s pronunciation: “Looavul.”

The 2026 drop is inspired by San Diego’s Balboa Park, the cultural heart of the city, with an ode to its iconic tile work. The bright pattern accents the kit in celebration of unity and the city’s diverse heritage.

The deep blues firmly anchor the Reign in their rich club history while putting the legacy in motion. The identity and history has shaped the club, and the next generation is surging forward to grab and carry that legacy.

The Beehive State is bringing the bees to the front. With a cluster of bees surrounding the lioness, it’s a tribute to hard work and collective effort. A hive lives or dies together, and this kit connects the entire ecosystem that supports the Royals – from coaches to fans.

The cherry blossoms of DC are blooming year round now. The iconic cherry blossoms pop against a dark green Potomac River motif, capturing the beauty and wonder of the trees that line the nation’s capital.

To grab your team’s newest kit, shop online at the NWSL Shop.
