As the 2024 NWSL season hits the halfway mark, we evaluate each team’s most valuable player. The player who performs on the field when needed most, powering their teammates to hold the line against a stoppage time onslaught or maybe even compelling their teammates to dig deep in the final seconds for late game glory of their own.

Sarah Gorden (Angel City FC): Angel City FC has faced a string of injuries over the past few years, delaying their path to success. However, last season marked a turning point as they made the playoffs for the first time in franchise history, thanks in large part to Sarah Gorden's remarkable Iron Woman performance.

This season, despite missing a few matches due to injury, Gorden has stepped up to lead the team yet again. As the team's leader in passes, she plays a crucial role in orchestrating the offense and known for her exceptional work ethic, Gorden's leadership is invaluable off the field. "That’s where her leadership is so valuable," said Coach Becki Tweed, praising Gorden's professionalism during recent media availability. "She steps on this field and has a presence."

Tess Boade (Bay FC): Many of expansion team Bay FC’s players have stepped up this season to lead on and off the field but one player who has captured the hearts of Bay FC’s fans and become the drum beat of this team is Tess Boade. Currently tied for most shots on target and for most goals for Bay FC, she most recently scored the game winner in her squad’s June 22nd home match against Angel City FC. Typically, the priority for an expansion team’s first season is building chemistry, and Tess has been integral in that effort and very likely, will be a valuable asset to the club for years to come.

Mal Swanson (Chicago Red Stars): The Red Stars signaled to the world Mal Swanson would be their squad’s centerpiece when they re-signed her in January to a historic deal through 2028. Since then, Swanson has more than justified the front office’s confidence, leading the team in goals, assists, shots, and shots on target – everything vital to keeping them in the game and in playoff contention. Most recently, she forced an own goal and scored in her team’s match against the Wave, catapulting the Red Stars to a monumental victory. She also scored the lone goal in the Red Stars’ July 6th home victory against the Dash. Her tactical flexibility ensures an unpredictable attack and her ability to create chances anywhere from the final third means more opportunity for her teammates to score, which could mean a game winning goal.

Headed into the Olympic break, the Red Stars are in a good position to finish the last half of the season strong and, if Mal Swanson has anything to say about it, make a deep playoff run.

Jane Campbell (Houston Dash): The Dash’s most valuable player might also be the best goalkeeper in the league right now. Jane Campbell has been having an incredible season, but that's nothing new. Most recently earning 2023 NWSL Goalkeeper of the Year accolades, she’s having a similarly in-form season this year and with 77 saves, leads the league in that category. Known for her shot stopping and distribution, she’s any coach’s dream when it comes to a goal tender but more than her skill on the field, she’s a leader in the locker room. Recognizing her invaluable contributions, the Dash have re-signed Campbell to a long-term deal, ensuring that she remains the cornerstone of their defense for years to come.

Temwa Chawinga (Kansas City Current): Temwa Chawinga has been a joy to watch this season, even before she kicked the first ball into the Missouri River in league history. And to cap off her river goal game, she scored a brace (her third of the season), and then scored a goal in her next match to maintain her lead for the Golden Boot. The Current as it stands has seen seventeen different goal scorers this season, ensuring anyone can score at any time and from any point of the field, but more than goal scoring, Chawinga offers something to an unbeaten team that is more than a scoreline.

“She’s been amazing for us,” said head coach Vlatko Andonovski during media availability after their 2-0 win against the Dash on June 28th where Chawinga produced her latest masterclass. “She scores goals, she assists on goals. She has been very impactful in the games, even when she doesn’t score.” In a team full of MVPs, where everyone has stepped up this season to deliver results, Chawinga has existed as the lynchpin to help them break through stalemates or maintain a lead despite the best efforts from their opponents.

Rose Lavelle (NJ/NY Gotham FC): In an All-Star team full of some of the best talent in the US – and the world – Rose Lavelle has been on another level this season. Providing highlight reel-worthy skills and goals every week, her presence on the field both compels her teammates to dig deep and sends defenders into disarray. She reads the field like no other and her ability to dribble through traffic allows her teammates to find open spaces to receive a low cross into the box. Her high soccer IQ is on par with some of the best attacking midfielders in the world – making her a huge asset for Juan Carlos Amorós’s squad – so it’s no surprise she’s currently tied with Ella Stevens as her team’s leading goal scorer. She also leads Gotham FC in shots and shots on target.

And off the field, with a long history with the national senior and youth teams, her experience in the locker room can be a difference maker at halftime when it’s time to rally your teammates for the next half. She’s had a phenomenal first year with Gotham FC and if they hope to run it back and defend their Championship, keeping Lavelle involved in the attack will be essential.

Ashley Sanchez (North Carolina Courage): Ashley Sanchez has experienced a renaissance since moving to Cary, North Carolina. Leading the club in assists, goals, shots, and shots on target, her ability to simply move the ball gets the Courage down the field into attacking position and draws defenders, giving her teammates the opportunity to find open space to become a threat. Her effusive celebrations when her teammates score bring joy to fans and reinvigorate the squad, especially when the Courage are in desperate need of a goal. In her return to Audi Field, her lone goal in the 19th minute struck fans across the league and inspired her teammates to hold the backline against a Spirit attack for the remainder of the match. She again scored in her next match, at home, against Racing Louisville FC, which led her teammates to generate more offensive potential, allowing them to score twice more.

The club finished third in the standings last season and were eliminated in the quarterfinals but with Sanchez slotting in and Kerolin’s return from injury imminent, they’ll be a team to watch in the second half of the season.

Barbra Banda (Orlando Pride): It only took 10 games for Barbra Banda to score 10 goals, breaking Christen Press’ 2014 record of 14 games, a feat everyone expected when the Orlando Pride announced they had signed the Zambian striker in early March. Banda made her debut for the Pride late in their April 19th match against the San Diego Wave and by her next match, was already starting and scoring. Since then, in second in the Golden Boot race behind Temwa Chawinga, she’s been an efficient and unstoppable force on the field, making runs into the box that defenders can’t counteract, demonstrating class with her finishing, and even setting up her teammates for goals of their own. In short, she’s incredibly hard to defend and simply being present on the field lifts up her teammates as well. The Pride have had an incredible season so far, and after the break, if Banda continues her goal scoring ways, they’re guaranteed not only a spot in the playoffs but maybe even the chance to compete in the NWSL Championship.

Sophia Smith (Portland Thorns FC): Easily one of the most talented players in the world right now, Portland Thorns’ star forward Sophia Smith left Stanford early to start her professional career in 2020. Since then, she’s accumulated an impressive list of accolades: 2022 NWSL MVP, 2022 Championship MVP, 2023 NWSL Golden Boot winner, just to name a few. The 2024 season has continued in very much the same fashion, with Smith currently second in the Golden Boot race with 10 goals and second in the league in assists and shots on target and third in shots. Portland had a rocky start to the season but found their stride by late April, returning to their typical scoring and winning ways, with Smith leading the charge.

Savannah DeMelo (Racing Louisville FC): Just outside the playoff race by two points, Racing Louisville has shown immense grit and resilience this season, as demonstrated in their late match goal against Reign FC on June 23rd that tied things up and earned them a much needed point. Much of this tenacity can be attributed to midfielder Savannah DeMelo, the team’s current leading goal scorer, who has been instrumental in their offensive efforts. DeMelo’s style of play requires a high soccer IQ and an ability to read the field well in order to make well-timed runs, and she does so well. She is also a formidable force in penalty kicks and free kicks, making her an invaluable asset in head coach Bev Yanez’s tactical plans.

As Racing Louisville continues to develop their on-field mentality under Yanez’s guidance, DeMelo will undoubtedly be a key player her teammates can rely on for leadership and inspiration.

Naomi Girma (San Diego Wave): "I’m San Diego through and through," affirmed Bay Area native Naomi Girma in a press conference last June, ahead of the USWNT’s World Cup send-off match in San Jose. Since being selected first overall by the San Diego Wave in the 2022 NWSL Draft, Girma has seamlessly adopted many traits of a Southern Californian on the pitch, despite not growing up there. Known for her composure under pressure, Girma’s temporary injury absence earlier this season highlighted her crucial role in maintaining the Wave’s defensive shape. Her impressive 91.36% pass accuracy reflects her exceptional spatial awareness, underpinning her reliability in the backline.

With San Diego currently ranking fourth in goals allowed this season, Girma’s presence is pivotal and as the Wave charts a new course, Girma is set to remain an integral cornerstone around which the team can evolve and thrive.

Bethany Balcer (Seattle Reign FC): The first NAIA player to sign with an NWSL team, Bethany Balcer has been a steady presence for Reign FC since she was signed in 2019, and this season her importance to Seattle has been most evident. Although the team currently sits thirteenth in the league, Balcer leads the team in goals at 5 (additionally, she’s scored 5 goals or more every regular season she’s played in the NWSL.) She has converted both of her penalty kicks this season – one which secured a victory during their 2024 home opener against the Washington Spirit and the second, most recently, in their draw against Racing Louisville. Balcer. She is also first in shots and tied for first in shots on target.

Off the field, she’s an outspoken mental health advocate, working in her own community and beyond to destigmatize mental health discussions and support networks. As Reign FC progresses through the rest of this tumultuous season, they’ll surely rely on Balcer’s steady approach to the game and her ability to deliver results on the field.

Ally Sentnor (Utah Royals FC): First overall draft pick Ally Sentnor has been a key player for Utah Royals FC this season, contributing significantly to the team's most memorable moments. Notably, her impressive half-field dribble culminated in the game-winning goal during Utah’s home opener against the Courage. Currently leading the team in goals and assists (6 G+A), Sentnor is the Royals’ main offensive generator and is a clinical set piece taker, as evidenced in her free kick which led to a goal, giving her team a much-needed 1-0 win over fellow expansion team Bay FC on June 16th. Most recently, exhibiting a skill far beyond her years, Sentnor expertly dispossessed a Reign FC defender to slot home her team’s goal in the Royals’ draw on June 7th.

Sentnor graduated early from UNC to kickstart her professional career and enter the 2024 NWSL draft, a decision that has proven to be astute. As the league heads into the Olympics break, she ranks fourth in the league in shots and seventh in shots on target, highlighting her status as a standout player both on her team and across the league. With her remarkable skills and vision, Sentnor is sure to be an exciting player to watch for years to come.

Croix Bethune (Washington Spirit): Without a doubt, the Washington Spirit has been fun to watch and at 32 goals this season so far—the third most goals in the league—it seems all cylinders are firing. Every week, there’s quality on every part of the field but the standout this season has been rookie forward Croix Bethune. Currently leading the league with 9 assists and 5 goals of her own, Bethune lifts up every player around her with her ability to read the field and her teammates’ movement well and with her infectious enthusiasm, as evidenced in her goal celebrations. She also finds the back of the net—sometimes improbably so—when her team needs it most, as was the case in the Spirit’s June 15 draw against the San Diego Wave and their March 23 home opener against Bay FC.

Sometimes, it’s hard to believe she’s only a rookie, and with Jonatan Giráldez now at the helm, the simple fact that her journey has only just begun means she’ll be a cornerstone for the Spirit to build upon for years to come.
