Match facts:

Gotham FC takes on the Orlando Pride on Wednesday night in the lone match of the evening, with the hosts Gotham unbeaten with a win and a draw so far this year whereas the Pride have taken just one point from two games (D1 L1).

**- MATCH POSTPONED TO AUGUST 9: SEE MORE -

Players to watch:**

<br>Gotham forward

Lynn Williams

has scored both of her side’s goals in the Challenge Cup this season and is up to five career goals in the competition. The only players with more career Challenge Cup goals than Williams are Debinha (10), Kristen Hamilton (7), and Ashley Hatch (7). <br>Two of Orlando attacker

Ally Watt

’s four career goals in NWSL competitions have come in this year’s Challenge Cup, both assisted by Summer Yates. Watts is tied for the most goals in this season’s Challenge Cup with three others while Yates is one of two players with multiple assists along with Alexa Spaanstra. <br>Match facts: Gotham FC takes on the Orlando Pride on Wednesday night in the lone match of the evening, with the hosts Gotham unbeaten with a win and a draw so far this year whereas the Pride have taken just one point from two games (D1 L1). <br>Dating back to last season’s competition, Gotham FC has scored at least one goal in seven consecutive Challenge Cup matches. Prior to the current streak, the club had scored in just five of 12 all-time matches in Challenge Cup play. <br>Orlando is on a nine-game winless run (D4 L5) in the Challenge Cup despite scoring at least once in each of its last five matches. The Pride have collected just one point in four away Challenge Cup matches since the start of last year, though that came in a 1-1 draw at Gotham in April 2022. <br>Orlando is unbeaten in its last six road matches in all competitions against Gotham FC (W3 D3), though, including a 0-0 draw in league play last month. The six-game run without a loss is the Pride’s longest ever road unbeaten streak against a single NWSL opponent (all competitions). <br>Ways to watch: Fans in the

United States

can watch the match on CBS Sports Network while fans

abroad

will be able to watch on NWSLSoccer.com . <br>
