We’re in Week 12, and things are heating up, especially at the top of the table where three teams are jockeying for first. Here’s what fans have to look forward to this weekend!

How do I watch live games from the 2024 NWSL Regular Season?

Friday night matches airing on Prime Video are available to US fans here.

Saturday night double-headers airing at 7:30 and 10 p.m. ET on Scripps-owned ION network is available to US fans here.

For games airing on CBS, US fans can watch here. US Fans can also stream on Paramount+ here.

For games airing on ESPN, US fans can watch here. Matches on ESPN and ESPN2 will also stream on ESPN+.

For games airing on NWSL+, US fans can watch here.

Fans outside of the US can watch on NWSL+.

Fans in Australia can watch on Optus.

Matchup: Kansas City Current vs. Chicago Red Stars - 8:00 PM ET

Where to watch: Prime Video

The Current dazzled viewers across the league last weekend as they dominated the Reign at home with an impressive 5-2 victory. This Friday evening, they’re starting the weekend action at home on Prime Video and are hosting the Chicago Red Stars. Coming off of a disappointing loss last weekend at Wrigley Field, they’re looking for some points to hang on to their playoff spot. Players to look out for this weekend are Current forward Temwa Chawinga, who’s a strong competitor for the Golden Boot trophy and is only two goals away from tying league leader Sophia Smith’s nine goals.

Matchup: Racing Louisville FC vs. NJ/NY Gotham FC - 12:00 PM ET

Where to watch: ESPN/ESPN Deportes/ESPN+

Racing Louisville is on a two-match win streak – and three-match unbeaten – but they’ll be hosting league champs Gotham FC this Saturday, who are also on an unbeaten streak of their own. Both teams are in fine form this weekend and while Racing’s young squad is looking for a statement win over the more experienced Gotham roster, Gotham is also hoping for all three points to hopefully reclaim 4th place in the standings from the Thorns. Keep an eye on Crystal Dunn, whose return to the forward position has been truly a sight to see for longtime Dunn enthusiasts. Savannah DeMelo, a reliable force in Racing’s midfield, is also a player to watch as she leads her team in goals.

Matchup: North Carolina Courage vs. Orlando Pride - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: NWSL+

Orlando's winning streak may have ended last weekend in San Diego, where they had to settle for a tie against the Wave, but their unbeaten streak remains intact. Will it be broken in North Carolina when they face USWNT goalkeeper Casey Murphy and the Courage, a team tied with Orlando for the most shutouts this season? One thing is certain: Murphy will have her hands full with Barbra Banda, who currently sits second in the Golden Boot race and is surely eager to get back on the score sheet after missing out last weekend.

Matchup: Washington Spirit vs. San Diego Wave - 7:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

The Washington Spirit, who have scored in every game this season, face a tough challenge this weekend as they host the San Diego Wave and their world-class goalkeeper, Kailen Sheridan. The two teams have yet to face off this season, so fans will be in for a treat as rookie sensation Croix Bethune tries to put one past veteran Sheridan.

As far as playoff implications go, a victory might see the Spirit leapfrog Orlando and Kansas City this weekend, depending on what happens in their matches earlier in the weekend. For the Wave, currently on the outside looking in, this match is a crucial opportunity to bolster their playoff hopes.

Matchup: Houston Dash vs. Angel City FC - 9:30 PM ET

Where to watch: ION

There’s plenty of matches left this season and the Dash and Angel City will need all the matches and points they can get if they want to see a playoff game this season. Both clubs experienced disappointing losses last weekend but for Angel City FC, there’s a light at the end of the tunnel as star forward Christen Press – sidelined by injury since 2022 – rejoined team practice this weekend, giving her teammates a much needed midseason morale boost. Will it be enough to launch them to victory in Houston this weekend? Keep an eye out for Angel City forward Alyssa Thompson, who has been hunting to get on the goalsheet all season. However, Jane Campbell won’t make it easy for her as she is currently leading the league in saves,

Matchup: Seattle Reign FC vs. Portland Thorns FC - 4:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBS/Paramount+

We’re in Seattle this time for the next edition of the Cascadia Clash and the Reign are determined to prove that their previous 4-0 defeat to Portland was a fluke. Jordyn Huitema, fresh from making franchise history as the youngest player to score a brace, is in fine form and ready to test the Thorns backline. One thing is for sure, Reign will be breathing a sigh of relief they will be facing Portland away from the loud atmosphere of Providence Park. Fans can expect an intense and thrilling match as the Reign aim for redemption and the Thorns look to maintain their spot in the standings.

Matchup: Bay FC vs. Utah Royals FC - 10:00 PM ET

Where to watch: CBSSN

Pride Night holds special significance in the Bay Area, where the final match of the weekend takes place. Known for its deep-rooted pride and vibrant queer community, it’ll surely be a night to remember as the league’s two newest teams face off to see who has adjusted to the big stage the best. Last weekend, Bay FC found glory in Wrigley Field when they defeated the Red Stars. Invigorated and rejuvenated after a disappointing loss at home the fixture prior, they’ll want to give their home fans a night of joyous celebrations and goals.

Keep an eye on Racheal Kundananji, whose relentless work effort and thirst for goals has made her a fan favorite. Also watch out for first overall draft pick Ally Sentnor, who is steadily settling into her role and is poised to make an impact. The rookie will be up against fellow rookie and former UNC teammate, second overall draft pick Savvy King.
