While Washington Spirit and Gotham FC compete in the the Final and Third Place matches of the W Champions Cup in Mexico, the rest of the league will continue their regular programming here in the U.S. Seven matches stretch across the weekend with every team fighting to go out on the summer break with more points. For some the break after Matchweek 10 will be a way to reset and recalibrate and for others, it’s a well-deserved vacation after three months of success on the field.

Here’s what to expect in Matchweek 9.

How to watch: Prime Video

After a tense 1-1 draw against Bay FC over the weekend, Boston will be looking to get back to winning in their first-ever match against Seattle. The Reign are desperate to break their nonwinning streak, having tied or lost every match since March 28. Meanwhile, Boston’s offense is finally starting to gel. Players like Aïssata Traoré, Alba Caño, and Amanda Gutierres are finding their roles well, leading the team with two goals apiece. But Boston’s key to this match is defense. Unfortunately for them, they’ll be without defender Bianca St-Georges after she got a red card in the Bay match. It’s up to Boston’s backline to step up to the challenge and stay disciplined.

For Seattle, they need to be more aggressive up front. They haven’t scored a goal since March 28, and it’s not for lack of talent. Brittany Ratcliffe, Nérilla “Coco” Mondésir, and Maddie Mercado are dangerous in the box, and Mia Fishel, Emeri Adames, and Maddie Dahlien also have the ability to score from anywhere on the pitch. They need to push quick and relentlessly to force Boston’s defensive weak points and win the day.

How to watch: ION

Coming off of a heartbreaking 2-1 defeat against an in-form Utah, Racing Louisville have a lot to prove against the North Carolina Courage. But the Courage, fired up after a big Matchweek 8 showing, are seeking to build positive momentum after their 4-0 rout of Chicago. Racing’s top priority should be defense. They’ve yet to keep a clean sheet this year. It’s not for lack of trying, however: goalkeeper Jordyn Bloomer leads the league in saves (33). Keeping their back line compact to foil the Courage’s aggressive attack is the best way to give Racing a win.

Ironically, the Courage needs to rely on that aggressive attack to stop Louisville in their tracks. In that 4-0 win last week, four different people got on the scoresheet. Most of those goals were from exploiting the massive gaps between defenders. If North Carolina can flood the zone and overwhelm Louisville’s defense, they’ll certainly come away with three points regardless of how clinical Bloomer is in goal.

How to watch: ION

Both of these teams have definitely found their footing offensively. The Royals, led by Cloé Lacasse and Mina Tanaka in goals, are on an eight-game undefeated streak. On the other side, Denver has scored at least three goals in every match since April 25. It feels like an understatement to say this could be a high-scoring match. Utah needs to leverage Mina Tanaka as much as humanly possible. She’s tied for most goals scored for the Royals and she leads in team assists. The more time she spends on the ball, the more likely she is to make magic happen.

Denver’s top three goalscorers, Melissa Kössler, Janine Sonis, and Tash Flint are all tied with four goals apiece. This shows the depth of their attack. For Denver, they should focus on defense. They win games by multiple goals, but they haven’t kept a clean sheet since the beginning of April. Keeping a clean sheet is the next step for a team that’s still finding its footing but has already shown incredible chemistry and teamwork.

How to watch: ION

Houston is searching for a response after another difficult weekend, falling 3-0 to Kansas City last weekend before showing signs of improvement in a midweek draw against San Diego. With leading scorer Kiki Van Zanten sidelined, the Dash may need more creativity from midfielder Kat Rader, who has quietly become one of the club’s most important attacking pieces. Rader sits second on the team in goals and tied for first in assists, and her ability to stretch the field and spark transition moments could be critical if Houston hopes to rediscover its attacking rhythm.

Angel City, meanwhile, may finally be building momentum. After grinding out a tense scoreless draw against Portland, who has one of the league’s most dangerous attacks, ACFC followed it up with an impressive 2-1 midweek win over reigning Shield holders the Kansas City Current. The foundation has been defense. Sarah Gorden, in particular, delivered a standout performance against Portland, helping neutralize Sophia Wilson across 90 minutes and she did it again against the Current. If Angel City can maintain that same defensive discipline while capitalizing on chances in transition, Wednesday’s result could be the beginning of a much-needed turnaround right before the summer.

How to watch: Paramount+

Kansas City’s three-game win streak may have been snapped on Wednesday in Los Angeles, but before that, they were looking back to their 2025 ways. And perfect timing as they gear up to face off against Portland. The visitors are coming off a hard-fought draw against Angel City and then a huge 2-0 shutout win at home versus Bay FC. Both teams have gained important attacking pieces back: Temwa Chawinga for the Current and Sophia Wilson for the Thorns so things may be different compared to their last duel earlier this season.

For the Current, it’s important that they don’t exclusively rely on Chawinga for their attacking output. Yes, she’s scored five goals on the season, but Croix Bethune and Michelle Cooper are secret weapons for Kansas City. They’re tied for second place behind Chawinga in goals scored for the club, and for good reason. Portland needs to get creative in the attack. Their strong forward line was neutralized by Angel City and against the Bay, they capitalized on peppering the goal and ensuring the rebounds were capitalized on. If they switch it up and get players like Reillyn Turner or Pietra Tordin (third most goals scored) in on goal, the Current’s defense could be too preoccupied defending Sophia Wilson to notice.

How to watch: ESPN App

Bay FC is looking to get a win at home, while Chicago is still searching for their first road win of the season. Bay midfielder Dorian Bailey had a breakout week, scoring the team’s only goal against Boston but along with her teammates was silent on Wednesday in their loss against Portland. Generally, the key to Bay’s success in this match lies in their midfielders. Bailey, Hannah Bebar, and USWNT player Claire Hutton are the engine of Bay’s attack. Bebar and Hutton are fantastic at advancing the ball creatively, while Bailey is tied with forward Alex Pfeiffer for most goals scored for the club. Meanwhile, Chicago needs to focus on their defending. They have the attacking talent, especially with Mallory Swanson making her return to the team, but they need a solid foundation in the back first.

How to watch: Victory+

Orlando fell 3-1 to the Denver Summit last week and will be missing star defender Angelina after she got a red card in that match. San Diego will be eager to continue their winning ways after a triumphant 2-1 win against the Washington Spirit before drawing the Dash on Wednesday. Current Golden Boot leader Barbra Banda will likely continue to perform in the offense and will give the Wave backline issues with her ability to run behind defenses and get on the ends of through balls and passes from her teammates. Orlando will need to tighten up defensively in order to keep pace with the Wave. Without Angelina, it’s important to not take too many risks defensively.

And for the Wave, it’s crucial for them to keep it unpredictable. Eight different players have scored goals for San Diego this season, making it difficult for teams to figure out who to put a marker on and defend against effectively. Defenses truly don’t know where the goals are going to come from. But one thing is for sure: keep an eye out for Kimmi Ascanio. She’s having another quietly impeccable season and could be a difference maker for her team on Sunday.
