If someone went back in time to tell a young Alex Morgan about Sunday night, she likely wouldn’t have believed them. Nearly a year after her final professional match, the San Diego Wave honored her legacy by retiring her iconic No. 13 following their September 7 home game against the Houston Dash, a ceremony that had fans reaching for both their pink prewrap and their tissues.

In front of a packed house at SnapDragon Stadium, it was an all-out Morgan celebration. Wave players arrived rocking t-shirts with her face all over it. Fans were treated to a heartfelt video featuring messages from teammates, friends, and family across the globe, while Abby Wambach narrated a tribute of Morgan’s most iconic moments on and off the field, broadcast on both TV and the stadium jumbotron. The Sirens, the Wave supporters group, held up a tifo based on “The Endless Summer” movie poster, modified to fit Morgan’s “Endless Impact.”

Before hearing from the woman of the hour in the postgame ceremony, Morgan was introduced by her former U.S. Women’s National Team and Orlando Pride teammate, Ali Krieger. Her very first assist for the USWNT was a goal Morgan scored, and Krieger said she’s never forgotten that.

“From then on, I knew if I just got the ball to her feet, magic would happen, and she made us look so damn good. It wasn't just me who had to sharpen my tools every day in training to keep up,” Krieger said. “Alex pushed all of us. She was the true engine of the team, setting the pace and driving us forward consistently. That's the kind of player she is – someone who makes everyone around her better.”

As much as the celebration was about Morgan’s career, it was also about her legacy, which goes far beyond her goals, medals, and championships. Morgan was the face of the USWNT’s push for equal pay against the U.S. Soccer Federation. She put in her own time to push the women’s game to new heights, to make it easier for those who came after her. Because of all she did, future generations of young girls — like her daughter Charlie — can achieve anything they set their minds to.

As Morgan walked on stage Sunday night, she received a minute-long standing ovation, a fitting welcome for “the San Diegoat.” She thanked her parents, her husband, and her teammates, but her final thank you was for the Wave fans.

“Oh, we have been through it. The ebbs and flows, the highs and lows. There's something about sports. It brings people together. The passion, just coming to a game, having that optimism, but dealing with the lows together, too. We did it all,” Morgan said. “And I just applaud you showing up every single day. That's why I showed up every single day.”

In a moment of reflection, Morgan said it was a surreal moment to see her No. 13 hanging at SnapDragon Stadium. It was one last moment of Morgan magic, turning the impossible into reality.

“To the young girls and boys in the stadium, this wasn't a possibility for 7-year-old Alex. Seven-year-old Alex had a dream of playing soccer, but not in my wildest dreams could I imagine standing up here seeing my number get retired because it just wasn't possible,” she said. “And now it is. And it's here. It's home with you. So, thank you so much. This means everything.”
