Onward to the playoffs! The Washington Spirit are officially in, while the rest of the league continues the battle for the remaining spots – except for the Stars, whose postseason hopes have ended. As Week 23 approaches, expect more drama and chaos. Here’s what you might have missed last weekend!

Kansas City Current 4, Chicago Stars FC 1

Kansas City yet again dominated at home, opening through Debinha in the seventh minute and doubling the lead when Bia Zaneratto finished a swift move early in the second half. Chicago pulled one back via Nádia Gomes, ending the Current’s record shutout streak of 870 minutes. Temwa Chawinga restored the two-goal cushion with her 14th goal of the season before Lo’eau LaBonta converted a stoppage-time penalty to tie the NWSL record with her 14th career regular-season spot kick. The victory marked KC’s 18th of the season, matching the single-season league record. One more and the Current’s 2025 season gets yet another record in the history books.

Gotham FC 3, Portland Thorns FC 0

Gotham controlled the tempo at home Friday night, taking the lead on Midge Purce’s 10th-minute header, her first of the 2025 season, and doubling it just before halftime when Rose Lavelle finished a buildup play through the middle. Katie Stengel sealed the result in the 73rd minute after a give-and-go with Lavelle while Ann-Katrin Berger posted a club-record ninth clean sheet. The game also marked Lavelle’s first-ever goal and assist game for Gotham.

San Diego Wave 1, Orlando Pride 2

It’s been a long few months for Orlando, who are winless since early June, but thanks to a new signing, they grabbed all three points against the San Diego Wave to cap off a Friday night of NWSL games. In the eighth minute, Jacquie Ovalle scored her first NWSL goal, then the Wave answered quickly three minutes later with a goal from Dudinha, also her first. However, in the second half, a curling ball from Oihane found Carson Pickett for the game winner, giving them the points needed to push back up the standings.

Racing Louisville FC 1, Angel City FC 0

Racing earned a vital home win in the playoff chase on Saturday evening, settling a tight match against Angel City with a Sarah Weber goal from a turnover forced by Emma Sears high up the pitch. Twelve minutes of stoppage time gave the visitors late-game energy, but Louisville’s back line saw it out for the victory. It was Jordyn Bloomer’s fourth career shutout.

Bay FC 0, Utah Royals 2

Utah extended its unbeaten streak to seven with two first-half goals at PayPal Park on Saturday night against fellow 2024 expansion team Bay FC. Janni Thomsen fired the opener from a Paige Monaghan feed in the ninth minute, and Aisha Solórzano doubled the advantage in the 18th, following up her initial effort to finish through traffic. She’s the first Guatemalan to score in the league. Mia Justus in her second appearance in goal made key stops at both ends of the match to secure the shutout as the Royals continued their late-season surge.

Washington Spirit 4, Houston Dash 0

Washington clinched a playoff berth behind a first-half hat trick from Gift Monday, the fastest from kickoff in league history, and a late backheel finish from Sofia Cantore on Sunday afternoon. Trinity Rodman, Croix Bethune, and Narumi Miura, while not on the scoresheet, played value roles in the midfield and wings, while Aubrey Kingsbury and the back line closed out an eighth clean sheet of the season. It’s the second season in a row they’ve made the playoffs and, sitting in second place in the standings, puts them in perfect position for a home playoff game.

Seattle Reign FC 2, North Carolina Courage 1

Seattle claimed three points on Sunday night after coming from behind. Hannah Betfort headed the Courage in front in the 57th minute from a Ryan Williams cross, but the Reign equalized on an own goal from a Jordyn Huitema delivery. They completed the comeback when Maddie Dahlien struck in the 80th. It’s her fourth goal of her rookie season – and all four have been game winners. The result tightens the middle of the table race with four matches remaining and elimination scenarios possible next weekend.
