Entering the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup as back-to-back champions, the No. 1-ranked U.S. Women's National Team looks to make history as the first team, men's or women's, to win three World Cup tournaments in a row. In eight tournament appearances, the juggernaut USWNT is the most decorated squad in Women's World Cup history, winning the title a record four times and placing in the top three in the other four editions.

Entering the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup as back-to-back champions, the No. 1-ranked U.S. Women's National Team looks to make history as the first team, men's or women's, to win three World Cup tournaments in a row. In eight tournament appearances, the juggernaut USWNT is the most decorated squad in Women's World Cup history, winning the title a record four times and placing in the top three in the other four editions.After winning the last two World Cup titles under then-head coach and current San Diego Wave FC president Jill Ellis, the USWNT named former NWSL manager Vlatko Andonovski as the team's new head coach. Andonovski leads a team with a range of World Cup experience to this tournament, with 14 of the team’s 23 players set to make their World Cup debuts. This new class of national team stars includes last year’s NWSL MVP Sophia Smith, Rookie and Defender of the Year Naomi Girma, star forward Trinity Rodman and the league's No. 1 overall draft pick from the 2023 NWSL Draft in 18-year-old phenom Alyssa Thompson. Joining this young team are eight NWSL players with World Cup experience, including Crystal Dunn, Julie Ertz, Rose Lavelle, Alex Morgan, Alyssa Naeher, Kelley O’Hara, Megan Rapinoe and Emily Sonnett. Leading the veterans are Morgan, O’Hara and Rapinoe, who are each returning for their fourth World Cup. With nine goals each in World Cup play, both Morgan and Rapinoe are among the top four active scorers in tournament history alongside fellow NWSL attackers Marta and Christine Sinclair. With 22 of the team's 23 players currently featuring in the NWSL, the U.S. World Cup roster represents nine of the league's 12 teams. OL Reign leads the way with five selections, while Washington is close behind with four. Comprised of past champions and rising stars, the U.S. Women's national team brings one of the most impressive rosters to the tournament. Their quest for a third-straight title begins on Friday, July 21 with a matchup against Vietnam with kickoff slated for 9 p.m. ET.
