NEW YORK (April 18, 2024) - The National Women’s Soccer League (NWSL) today announced new international media partnerships as well as global coverage plans for the remainder of the 2024 season. Building on last year’s package of offerings that saw the successful expansion into key markets across Europe, Asia and Latin America, this season’s partnerships will provide access to live NWSL matches and highlights for audiences in more than 60 countries around the world.

“The NWSL has an elite talent pool that features so many of the world's most prominent international stars," said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. "We are witnessing meteoric global growth in our sport and want to ensure that we give our fanbase in every corner of the world access to matches and bring them closer to their favorite teams and players." Australia-based Optus Sport secured exclusive rights to all NWSL matches while ESPN Africa (Sub-Saharan Africa), Canal GOAT (Brazil), TV Azteca (Latin America) and Canal 11 (Portugal) will each have exclusive rights to two matches per week. Scandinavian distributor ViaPlay and Canadian sports channel TSN will each exclusively air one contest per week. TSN’s digital streaming service, TSN+, will non-exclusively air up to three matches each week. As part of the NWSL’s landmark domestic media partnerships announced last November, ESPN Latin America has rights to air all 20 matches airing across ABC, ESPN and ESPN2 platforms as well as the 2024 NWSL Championship, presented by Google Pixel. In addition, ESPN Africa, Canal 11, Optus, TSN and ViaPlay will each exclusively air select matches as part the 2024 NWSL Playoffs, presented by Google Pixel, in their respective regions. All non-exclusive matches remain available to fans tuning in outside of the United States on NWSL+. Launched at the start of the 2024 season, the free direct-to-consumer service gives fans access to live matches as well as highlights, replays and other team content online and via streaming TV distributors Apple TV, Fire TV, and Roku TV. For more information on how to watch NWSL+, click here. For fans in the U.S., 121 NWSL matches will air on national platforms this season, including CBS, ESPN, Prime Video and Scripps-owned ION. The remaining contests are available for free on NWSL+. For more information on how to watch matches in 2024, click here. A weekly schedule of matches by international platform is available here. Endeavor’s IMG advised and negotiated deals on the league’s behalf.

About NWSL

The National Women’s Soccer League is the premier women’s professional soccer league in the world featuring national team players from around the globe. The clubs are Angel City FC, Bay FC, Boston, Chicago Red Stars, Houston Dash, Kansas City Current, NJ/NY Gotham FC, North Carolina Courage, Orlando Pride, Portland Thorns FC, Racing Louisville FC, San Diego Wave FC, Seattle Reign FC, Utah Royals FC, and Washington Spirit.
