Week 2 of the NWSL is barely gone, and here we are! More football!

It’s the first slate of Wednesday matches of the season with another packed weekend of games ahead. Talk about a spoil of riches. How great would a winning Wednesday be? Let’s get into these midweek match ups.

Washington Spirit vs Utah Royals – 7 p.m. ET

How to Watch: Victory+

Both the Spirit and the Royals are looking for their first W of the season, and the Royals will have the tall task of doing so at Audi Field. Utah’s Cece Delzer has had solid success against the Spirit, scoring four goals throughout her career, so she may be their missing piece to finally find some success in the standings. However, the Royals will be without Tatumn Milazzo, who scored in Week 1, due to a red card suspension.

Rosemonde Kouassi has assisted four of Washington’s last five goals dating back to the 2025 playoffs, continuing to be a key creative force for the Spirit. This matchup also marks a rematch of Decision Day 2025, when Utah secured its first win over Washington since rejoining the league, with Paige Cronin delivering the decisive first-half goal. Utah is still searching for its first points of 2026 after back-to-back losses, while Washington will look to build on momentum from its comeback draw in Louisville. Trinity Rodman is also set to make history yet again, with her 100th regular-season appearance taking place on Wednesday. She will become the youngest player in league history to reach that mark.

Washington’s 2-2 draw against Louisville last week showed both resilience and reliance on Kouassi’s playmaking, as she assisted both of the squad’s second-half goals. Utah, meanwhile, have shown flashes of brilliance but a tendency to let in late-game goals to give up points. Lara Prašnikar’s historic first NWSL goal – and the first ever by a Slovenian player – may also be an indicator of exciting things to come for a team that has all the pieces of success, now needs to do something with it.

Gotham FC vs Denver Summit – 7 p.m. ET

How to Watch: Victory+

Both teams are coming off of draws in their latest matches, but Gotham has the benefit of back-to-back home games in a short week while Denver is on the road for the third straight match. Melissa Kössler has settled into Denver well, scoring two goals in two games, and if she scores again – and first – against Gotham, she would be the first player in league history to score in all three of a club’s first three matches. Denver will miss rookie Jasmine Aikey, who was put on SEI this week, but it’s a young roster with promise once they get into a groove. Janine Sonis will also be back in action after serving a red card suspension, so Gotham will need to limit her. As for Gotham’s offense, Esther González is the lone goal scorer so far this season, but it’s only a matter of time before something gives.

The goalkeeping will also make for a compelling matchup. Former Gotham star Abby Smith, who was in goal for the 2023 NWSL Champion Gotham goes up against Ann-Katrin Berger, the new starting keeper that anchored Gotham through their second NWSL Championship in 2025. While Berger has two clean sheets through the opening weekends of the season, Smith has held her own for the inaugural club, making 10 saves to preserve the point against Orlando. With the support of the stalwart Gotham defenders like Emily Sonnett, Jess Carter, and Lilly Reale, it’s a formidable backline for the Summit to breakthrough, especially with captain Tierna Davidson working back into game action.

How to Watch: Victory+

The Chicago Stars – who ended the 2025 season at the bottom of the table – sent a message last weekend with a defiant win against the heavily favored and reigning NWSL Shield Winners the Kansas City Current. Home field advantage seemed to suit the Stars just fine, so back-to-back games at Northwestern Field at Martin Stadium may be what the club needs to start the season with confidence – along with the inclusion of offseason and recent additions to the squad. Last weekend, the two goal scorers – Tessa Dellarose and Jordyn Huitema – and the second goal’s assist provider – Ryan Gareis – were all players who didn’t wear a Stars jersey last season. Perhaps Martin Sjögren has finally figured out the combo Chicago has been searching for for years.

The Pride, meanwhile, are still looking for their first win of the season, though Barbra Banda’s return from injury has given Orlando chances. In two games Banda has as many goals. Welcome back, indeed! For Orlando to keep consistent pressure, they will need to create space for Banda to do her magic and hopefully get additional playmakers involved. However, the late-game goal they allowed in Week 1 that gave all three points to Seattle is proof Orlando needs to find the discipline on the backline that broke records in 2024. This game will surely be a battle of wills – and who wants it more.

Seattle Reign vs Kansas City Current – 9 p.m. ET

How to Watch: NWSL+

After a win in Orlando and a loss in Portland, the Seattle Reign will look to find some comfort in their home opener. For the Current, a loss in Chicago was an unexpected turn, but given the blustery conditions, an off game isn’t something to worry about just yet, Kansas City fans. Though still without Temwa Chawinga, the Current have no shortage of weapons on offense – new additions Croix Bethune and Penelope Hocking, Debinha, Michelle Cooper, and Haley Hopkins just to name a few – and this could be the rebound game needed to find their rhythm as a team. Last year, they were the team with a dream, launching a Shield-winning record-breaking performance across the regular season before falling to Gotham in the quarterfinals. We’re only in Week 3, so there’s plenty of time still for the reigning Shield Winners to find that same spark.

NWSL original Jess Fishlock – who is one goal away from her 50th career regular season goal – will lock down second place for the all-time regular season appearances this Wednesday if she takes to the field, breaking the current tie with McCall Zerboni (217). She was vital for the Reign last weekend as both their spiritual leader and also as a player who can both score and provide. Her targets are numerous: Mia Fishel, who is still searching for her first Reign goal, Nerilia Móndesir, and young forwards Maddie Dahlien and Emeri Adames. Seattle has also recently added Canadian forward Holly Ward, who in her five starts for her national team has scored twice and assisted another. They may have lost the speed, height, and skill of Jordyn Huitema, but they have plenty of what it takes – and a 2025 NWSL Goalkeeper of the Year nominee in Claudia Dickey – to find a result in their home opener against a Current that is on the hunt for some redemption after last weekend.

How to Watch: CBS Sports Network

The San Diego Wave will host the Portland Thorns for some Wednesday night NWSL After Dark, and both teams have come into the 2026 season with a strong start. The Thorns are one of just three teams who are coming into Wednesday with back-to-back wins, though their depth will take a hit with both Reyna Reyes and Cassandra Bogere out this game serving red card suspensions. A concern for Portland coming into the season was how to make up for the loss of midfielder Sam Coffey, but under the leadership of Olivia Moultrie and Jessie Fleming, the Thorns are finding a new way forward. Moultrie earned the first goal of the season, and Fleming’s ball recovery in the first two games of the year have been critical for the club’s momentum. With a goal and two assists, Pietra Tordin’s sophomore campaign is already off to a promising start.

The San Diego Wave are continuing with their position-based approach and after last weekend where they scored their first goal of the season, have started to find their rhythm. Dudinha opened the scoring in that match while rookie Lia Godfrey delivered the 87th-minute game-winner for her first professional goal. Between the Brazilian trio of Ludmilla, Dudhina, and Gabi Porthillo and threats Kenza Dali and Gia Corley, there are plenty of scoring options for the Wave. With the inclusion of Godrey and their existing youth contingent, the Wave have the tools to launch a dynamic attack and pressure the Thorns backline, a tactic that paid off in dividends last weekend in Utah.
