NOTES TO KNOW

NOTES TO KNOW

SD IN, KC OUT

San Diego Wave FC moved into first place with a 2-0 win over Portland Thorns FC, becoming the first team to clinch a spot in the 2023 NWSL Playoffs. San Diego’s newest addition Kyra Carusa scored the opening goal in the 20th minute of the match, assisted by 18-year-old forward Jaedyn Shaw. This was the second goal for Carusa in just five NWSL games and the first in front of the home crowd for the San Diego native. The Wave doubled their lead in the 38th minute with Alex Morgan burying a header for a goal on an assist from defender Christen Westphal, her sixth goal of the season and her first since May 20. The Wave return to the playoffs for the second straight year, making it in both of their first two seasons. With two games remaining, they look to earn their first Shield. Meanwhile, the Kansas City Current are eliminated from playoff contention. The Current advanced all the way to the 2022 NWSL Championship but they fall short in their quest to avenge the loss. With two games remaining, the Current have allowed 31 goals, two more than they allowed in 2022, while their 22 goals scored is tied for the second lowest total in the league this season.

SO CLOSE YET SO FAR

Gotham FC did everything one could ask of a team on Sunday, but just could not get a goal. They were defeated by the Houston Dash 2-0 despite doubling their opponent’s totals in several statistics, including possession percentage (NJY: 68.4% - HOU: 31.6%), expected goals (2.34 - 0.31), total shots (27 - 3), shots on target (7 - 3), shots blocked (6 - 1) and passes (450 – 211). Gotham FC tallied 15 corner kicks, tying a league record for the most in a game by one team, but they were not able to turn those opportunities into a goal. They had many close chances, including in second half stoppage time when a potential goal by forward Midge Purce was overturned upon VAR review. Minutes later, a penalty kick by rookie midfielder Jenna Nighswonger rolled off the right post and missed, sending Houston home with a 2-0 win.

MILESTONES AND RECORDS

300 GOALS

With her third goal of the season, Houston Dash forward Michelle Alozie tallied the NWSL’s 300th goal of 2023. Alozie did not wait long for number 301, as she scored again 17 minutes later for her first career brace. Through Week 20, every team has scored at least 15 goals, while the Thorns lead the league with 40, 11 more than the closest team.

A GOOD WEEK FOR BRAZILIANS

With a successful penalty kick on Saturday, Kansas City Current forward Debinha registered the 28th goal scored by a Brazilian this regular season. With her eighth goal of the year, the Ballon d’Or nominee broke a tie with Portland Thorns midfielder Morgan Weaver and NJ/NY Gotham FC forward Lynn Williams, moving into sole possession of fourth place in the Golden Boot race. North Carolina Courage forward Kerolin followed suit on Sunday, tallying her 10th goal of the season, the 29th by a Brazilian, which brings her one goal from tying reigning MVP Sophia Smith in the Golden Boot race. Orlando Pride forward Adriana scored a game winner against Angel City FC on Monday night, marking the 30th goal scored by a Brazilian this season, a new NWSL record.

ROWDY AT AUDI

11,607 fans packed Audi Field in Washington D.C. to watch the Spirit take on the Current, the Spirit’s seventh home crowd of over 10,000 in 2023. Washington put on a show in front of the home crowd, capped off with a game-winning goal from Trinity Rodman in the 91st minute. With one more home game left on the schedule, the Spirit have already surpassed 100,000 regular season fan attendance this season for the first time in club history. The Spirit are the sixth team to reach 100,000 fans this season, joining Angel City FC, San Diego Wave FC, OL Reign, Portland Thorns FC and the Kansas City Current.

KEEPERS CLUB

Houston Dash keeper Jane Campbell continued her stellar season with her eighth clean sheet of the year on Sunday. The shutout was the 30th of her career, making her the fifth keeper to reach this milestone and just the third to record 30 for one club, joining Chicago Red Stars keeper Alyssa Naeher and former FC Kansas City keeper Nicole Barnhart. Campbell also recorded her 43rd career win, tying Barnhart for the second most wins by a keeper with a single club. San Diego Wave keeper Kailen Sheridan recorded her 29th career shutout this weekend, tying her with Spirit keeper Aubrey Kingsbury on the NWSL’s all-time leaderboard. Alyssa Naeher had a strong game in goal on Sunday, recording five saves in a 1-0 win over Racing Louisville FC to keep the Red Stars in playoff contention. Naeher’s clean sheet was the 38th of her career, tying Nicole Barnhart for the most with a single club. Orlando Pride keeper Anna Moorhouse recorded seven saves in a 1-0 win on Monday, ending Angel City’s unbeaten streak at eight games. Moorehouse’s sixth clean sheet of 2023 sets a single season club record and keeps the Pride at the No. 7 seed while tying No. 6 seed OL Reign in points.

WEEK 20 MATCH RESULTS

September 30, 2023

Washington Spirit vs. Kansas City Current | 2 – 1 | Match Recap Chicago Red Stars vs. Racing Louisville FC | 1 – 0 | Match Recap Porland Thorns FC vs. San Diego Wave FC | 0 – 2 | Match Recap

October 1, 2023

NJ/NY Gotham FC vs. Houston Dash | 0 – 2 | Match Recap OL Reign vs. North Carolina Courage | 1 – 1 | Match Recap

October 2, 2023

Angel City FC vs. Orlando Pride | 0 – 1 | Match Recap
