Ahead of this weekend’s historic match at Oracle Park, Bay FC has officially sold more tickets than the NWSL attendance record for a single game with over 35,000 tickets sold. With the attendance record set to be broken, fans are encouraged to buy tickets as soon as possible to ensure their seat at this historic match where Bay FC faces off against Trinity Rodman and the Washington Spirit.

“We are incredibly proud of what this match means for Bay FC, for the Bay Area, and for the NWSL,” said Bay FC CEO Brady Stewart. “To set a new attendance record is a reflection of the passion and energy our fans bring every time we step on the field. This is about more than just a match, it is about pushing boundaries and creating something bigger than ourselves. Everyone who is at Oracle Park Saturday has the chance to be part of history and together show the world what’s possible in women’s sports.”

“This is a landmark moment not just for Bay FC or the NWSL, but for the future of women’s professional sports in the United States,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “Breaking the league’s single-match attendance record at a venue as iconic as Oracle Park is a testament to the growing demand, passion and momentum behind our league. This match is only the beginning of our celebration of women’s soccer in the Bay Area, as we gear up to return in November to host the 2025 NWSL Championship, and the energy and enthusiasm we’re seeing now sets the stage for an unforgettable finish to the season.”

With a capacity of 40,260 at Oracle Park, this match has the chance to shatter the previous record of 35,038 fans set in 2024 when Bay FC visited the Chicago Red Stars at Wrigley Field in Chicago. The match will also break the record for attendance among all United States women’s professional league sports.

Of the top 50 most attended women’s professional league games, the Bay Area has been represented four times. In addition to The Show in 2025 and last year’s match at Wrigley Field, the San Jose Cyber Rays were part of the 2001 WUSA Inaugural Match (34,148) and 2001 WUSA Championship Match (21,078).

The NWSL owns 48 of the top 50 most attended matches in United States women’s professional league sports history.
