NEW YORK (January 5, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League today announced its collaboration withPositive Coaching Alliance to host a first-of-its-kind culture summit on Friday, January 13, following the 2023 NWSL Draft presented by Ally.

NEW YORK (January 5, 2023) - The National Women’s Soccer League today announced its collaboration with Positive Coaching Alliance to host a first-of-its-kind culture summit on Friday, January 13, following the 2023 NWSL Draft presented by Ally.

The summit, designed specifically for the NWSL, comes as part of the league’s continuing commitment to implement systemic reform which is focused on creating a safe and supportive culture in the league. “This seminar is the latest step in our mission to create a league in which we can all be proud,” said NWSL Commissioner Jessica Berman. “Coaches and general managers play key roles in fostering an environment where players feel safe and supported on and off the pitch. With the guidance of the incredible staff at Positive Coaching Alliance, this summit will provide our teams’ technical staffs with the tools and skills needed to create a culture that sets them and NWSL players up for success.” “Creating a positive team and organizational culture is one of the most important things coaches and leaders can do to create a safe environment at all levels of sport,” said PCA President Jason Sacks. “We commend Commissioner Berman and the league for making this a priority for their technical staffs. PCA is excited to utilize our 25 years of experience, as well as our network of experts from the professional coaching, sports psychology and sports performance fields to provide tangible tools and resources league wide.” As part of the summit, head coaches, assistant coaches and general managers from each of the league’s 12 clubs will participate in an in-person, interactive seminar facilitated by Positive Coaching Alliance and focusing on three core themes including:

Establishing and maintaining team and organizational culture

Building trust with your athletes

Hard conversations/giving feedback

The summit will also feature PCA National Advisory Board Member guest speakers and facilitators from the sports psychology and academic fields including:

Dr. Mary Fry, Director of Kansas University’s Sport and Exercise Psychology Lab

Dr. Lori Gano-Overway, Associate Professor and Director of the Coaching Education Program at James Madison University

Dr. Dan Gould, Former Director of Michigan State University Institute for the Study of Youth Sports

Dr. Kensa Gunter, Clinical and Sport Psychologist; Director, NBA Mind Health

Dr. Colleen Hacker, Internationally recognized Speaker and Mental Performance Consultant and Six Time Olympic Games Coaching Staff

Dan Helfrich, Deloitte Consulting CEO and former Georgetown men’s soccer player

Founded in 1998 out of Stanford University, Positive Coaching Alliance is a leader in positive youth development through sport, using research-based tools and best practices to provide programming to coaches across the U.S.
