SAN DIEGO (November 2, 2023) –

The National Women’s Soccer League today announced further details surrounding the 2023 NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, as part of the league’s celebration of the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light. Kicking off at 4 p.m. local time at Surf Sports Park in Del Mar, California, on Friday, November 10, the NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, will pit two teams comprised of NWSL stars against each other in a series of skills competitions, including Player Shootouts (on a goalie representing each team), 2-on-2 TeqBall, and the Crossbar Challenge.

SAN DIEGO (November 2, 2023) – The National Women’s Soccer League today announced further details surrounding the 2023 NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, as part of the league’s celebration of the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light. Kicking off at 4 p.m. local time at Surf Sports Park in Del Mar, California, on Friday, November 10, the NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, will pit two teams comprised of NWSL stars against each other in a series of skills competitions, including Player Shootouts (on a goalie representing each team), 2-on-2 TeqBall, and the Crossbar Challenge.

The winning team will be awarded a $25,000 prize from CarMax to be split among that team’s players. Among the athletes confirmed for the event include:

Orlando Pride forward and 2023 Rookie of the Year, presented by Ally, finalist Messiah Bright

Kansas City Current midfielder Lo’eau LaBonta

Racing Louisville FC keeper and Goalkeeper of the Year finalist Katie Lund

North Carolina Courage captain Denise O’Sullivan

Full rosters for each team will be announced in the coming days. Fans will have the opportunity to meet NWSL Skills Challenge, presented by CarMax, participants following the event. In addition to the Skills Challenge, fans can enjoy food and beverages for purchase. Tickets for the 2023 NWSL Championship, presented by Bud Light, remain available here, with kickoff set for 8 p.m. ET on Saturday, November 11. The match will air live in primetime on the CBS Television Network and Paramount+. Additional coverage details will be announced at a later date.
